PMID	Sample Type	Journal	Article Title	Abstract	Number of samples/patients
37598041	fecal 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	The association between gut microbiome and growth in infants with cystic fibrosis.	"In cystic fibrosis (CF), pathophysiologic changes in the gastrointestinal tract lead to malnutrition and altered gut microbiome. Microbiome alterations have been linked to linear growth, gut inflammation and respiratory manifestations. Elucidating these gut microbiome alterations may provide insight into future nutritional management in CF. Infants were followed for 12-months at four sites in the United States (US-CF) and Australia (AUS-CF). 16S rRNA gene sequencing was performed on longitudinal stool samples. Associations between microbial abundance and age, antibiotic prophylaxis, malnutrition, and breast feeding were evaluated using generalized linear mixed models. Taxonomic and predictive functional features were compared between groups. Infants with CF (N = 78) were enrolled as part of a larger study. AUS-CF infants had higher mean weight-for-age z-scores than US-CF infants (p = 0.02). A subset of participants (CF N = 40, non-CF disease controls N = 10) provided stool samples for microbiome analysis. AUS-CF infants had lower stool alpha diversity compared to US-CF infants (p < 0.001). AUS-CF infants had higher relative abundance of stool Proteobacteria compared to US-CF infants which was associated with antibiotic prophylaxis (p < 0.001). Malnutrition (weight-for-age <10th percentile) was associated with depleted Lactococcus (p < 0.001). Antibiotic prophylaxis (p = 0.002) and malnutrition (p = 0.012) were linked with predicted decreased activity of metabolic pathways responsible for short chain fatty acid processing. In infants with CF, gut microbiome composition and diversity differed between the two continents. Gut microbial diversity was not linked to growth. The relationship between malnutrition and antibiotic prophylaxis with reduced SCFA fermentation could have implications for gut health and function and warrants additional investigation."	78
31992345	fecal 16S	Genome medicine	Interactions between the gut microbiome and host gene regulation in cystic fibrosis.	"Cystic fibrosis is the most common autosomal recessive genetic disease in Caucasians. It is caused by mutations in the CFTR gene, leading to poor hydration of mucus and impairment of the respiratory, digestive, and reproductive organ functions. Advancements in medical care have led to markedly increased longevity of patients with cystic fibrosis, but new complications have emerged, such as early onset of colorectal cancer. Although the pathogenesis of colorectal cancer in cystic fibrosis remains unclear, altered host-microbe interactions might play a critical role. To investigate this, we characterized changes in the microbiome and host gene expression in the colonic mucosa of cystic fibrosis patients relative to healthy controls, and identified host gene-microbiome interactions in the colon of cystic fibrosis patients. We performed RNA-seq on colonic mucosa samples from cystic fibrosis patients and healthy controls to determine differentially expressed host genes. We also performed 16S rRNA sequencing to characterize the colonic mucosal microbiome and identify gut microbes that are differentially abundant between patients and healthy controls. Lastly, we modeled associations between relative abundances of specific bacterial taxa in the gut mucosa and host gene expression. We find that 1543 genes, including CFTR, show differential expression in the colon of cystic fibrosis patients compared to healthy controls. These genes are enriched with functions related to gastrointestinal and colorectal cancer, such as metastasis of colorectal cancer, tumor suppression, p53, and mTOR signaling pathways. In addition, patients with cystic fibrosis show decreased gut microbial diversity, decreased abundance of butyrate producing bacteria, such as Ruminococcaceae and Butyricimonas, and increased abundance of other taxa, such as Actinobacteria and Clostridium. An integrative analysis identified colorectal cancer-related genes, including LCN2 and DUOX2, for which gene expression is correlated with the abundance of colorectal cancer-associated bacteria, such as Ruminococcaceae and Veillonella. In addition to characterizing host gene expression and mucosal microbiome in cystic fibrosis patients, our study explored the potential role of host-microbe interactions in the etiology of colorectal cancer in cystic fibrosis. Our results provide biomarkers that may potentially serve as targets for stratifying risk of colorectal cancer in patients with cystic fibrosis."	?
37607068	fecal 16S	Microbiology spectrum	Tezacaftor/Ivacaftor therapy has negligible effects on the cystic fibrosis gut microbiome.	"People with cystic fibrosis (pwCF) experience a range of persistent gastrointestinal symptoms throughout life. There is evidence indicating interaction between the microbiota and gut pathophysiology in CF. However, there is a paucity of knowledge on the potential effects of CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) modulator therapies on the gut microbiome. In a pilot study, we investigated the impact of Tezacaftor/Ivacaftor dual combination CFTR modulator therapy on the gut microbiota and metabolomic functioning in pwCF. Fecal samples from 12 pwCF taken at baseline and following placebo or Tezacaftor/Ivacaftor administration were subjected to microbiota sequencing and to targeted metabolomics to assess the short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) composition. Ten healthy matched controls were included as a comparison. Inflammatory calprotectin levels and patient symptoms were also investigated. No significant differences were observed in overall gut microbiota characteristics between any of the study stages, extended also across intestinal inflammation, gut symptoms, and SCFA-targeted metabolomics. However, microbiota and SCFA metabolomic compositions, in pwCF, were significantly different from controls in all study treatment stages. CFTR modulator therapy with Tezacaftor/Ivacaftor had negligible effects on both the gut microbiota and SCFA composition across the course of the study and did not alter toward compositions observed in healthy controls. Future longitudinal CFTR modulator studies will investigate more effective CFTR modulators and should use prolonged sampling periods, to determine whether longer-term changes occur in the CF gut microbiome. IMPORTANCE People with cystic fibrosis (pwCF) experience persistent gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms throughout life. The research question ""how can we relieve gastrointestinal symptoms, such as stomach pain, bloating, and nausea?"" remains a top priority for clinical research in CF. While CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) modulator therapies are understood to correct underlying issues of CF disease and increasing the numbers of pwCF are now receiving some form of CFTR modulator treatment. It is not known how these therapies affect the gut microbiome or GI system. In this pilot study, we investigated, for the first time, effects of the dual combination CFTR modulator medicine, Tezacaftor/Ivacaftor. We found it had negligible effects on patient GI symptoms, intestinal inflammation, or gut microbiome composition and functioning. Our findings are important as they fill important knowledge gaps on the relative effectiveness of these widely used treatments. We are now investigating triple combination CFTR modulators with prolonged sampling periods."	12
35764510	fecal 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	"Modulation, microbiota and inflammation in the adult CF gut: A prospective study."	"Cystic Fibrosis (CF) has prominent gastrointestinal and pancreatic manifestations. The aim of this study was to determine the effect of Cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) modulation on, gastrointestinal inflammation, pancreatic function and gut microbiota composition in people with cystic fibrosis (CF) and the G551D-CFTR mutation. Fourteen adult patients with the G551D-CFTR mutation were assessed clinically at baseline and for up to 1 year after treatment with ivacaftor. The change in gut inflammatory markers (calprotectin and lactoferrin), exocrine pancreatic status and gut microbiota composition and structure were assessed in stool samples. There was no significant change in faecal calprotectin nor lactoferrin in patients with treatment while all patients remained severely pancreatic insufficient. There was no significant change in gut microbiota diversity and richness following treatment. There was no significant change in gut inflammation after partial restoration of CFTR function with ivacaftor, suggesting that excess gut inflammation in CF is multi-factorial in aetiology. In this adult cohort, exocrine pancreatic function was irreversibly lost. Longer term follow-up may reveal more dynamic changes in the gut microbiota and possible restoration of CFTR function."	14
36717332	fecal 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	"The gut microbiome, short chain fatty acids, and related metabolites in cystic fibrosis patients with and without colonic adenomas."	"Adults with cystic fibrosis (CF) are at increased risk for colon cancer. CF patients have reductions in intestinal bacteria that produce short chain fatty acids (SCFAs), although it is unclear whether this corresponds with intestinal SCFA levels and the presence of colonic neoplasia. The aim of this study was to compare gut microbiome and SCFA composition in patients with and without CF, and to assess associations with colonic adenomas. Colonic aspirates were obtained from adults with and without CF undergoing colon cancer screening or surveillance colonoscopy. Microbiome characterization was performed by 16S rRNA V3-V4 sequencing. Targeted profiling of SCFAs and related metabolites was performed by LC-MS. 42 patients (21 CF, 21 control) were enrolled. CF patients had significantly reduced alpha diversity and decreased relative abundance of many SCFA-producing taxa. There were no significant differences in SCFA levels in CF patients, although there were reduced levels of branched chain fatty acids (BCFAs) and related metabolites. CF patients with adenomas, but not controls with adenomas, had significantly increased relative abundance of Bacteroides fragilis. CF microbiome composition was significantly associated with isovalerate concentration and the presence of adenomas. CF patients have marked disturbances in the gut microbiome, and CF patients with adenomas had notably increased relative abundance of B. fragilis, a pathogen known to promote colon cancer. Reductions in BCFAs but not SCFAs were found in CF. Further studies are warranted to evaluate the role of B. fragilis as well the biological significance of reductions in BCFAs in CF."	42
36255300	fecal 16S	Microbiology spectrum	Statistical Evaluation of Metaproteomics and 16S rRNA Amplicon Sequencing Techniques for Study of Gut Microbiota Establishment in Infants with Cystic Fibrosis.	"Newborn screening for cystic fibrosis (CF) can identify affected but asymptomatic infants. The selection of omic technique for gut microbiota study is crucial due to both the small amount of feces available and the low microorganism load. Our aims were to compare the agreement between 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing and metaproteomics by a robust statistical analysis, including both presence and abundance of taxa, to describe the sequential establishment of the gut microbiota during the first year of life in a small size sample (8 infants and 28 fecal samples). The taxonomic assignations by the two techniques were similar, whereas certain discrepancies were observed in the abundance detection, mostly the lower predicted relative abundance of  and the higher predicted relative abundance of certain  and  by amplicon sequencing. During the first months of life, the CF gut microbiota is characterized by a significant enrichment of Ruminococcus gnavus, the expression of certain virulent bacterial traits, and the detection of human inflammation-related proteins. Metaproteomics provides information on composition and functionality, as well as data on host-microbiome interactions. Its strength is the identification and quantification of  and certain classes of , but alpha diversity indices are not comparable to those of amplicon sequencing. Both techniques detected an aberrant microbiota in our small cohort of infants with CF during their first year of life, dominated by the enrichment of  within a human inflammatory environment.  In recent years, some techniques have been incorporated for the study of microbial ecosystems, being 16S rRNA gene sequencing being the most widely used. Metaproteomics provides the advantage of identifying the interaction between microorganisms and human cells, but the available databases are less extensive as well as imprecise. Few studies compare the statistical differences between the two techniques to define the composition of an ecosystem. Our work shows that the two methods are comparable in terms of microorganism identification but provide different results in alpha diversity analysis. On the other hand, we have studied newborns with cystic fibrosis, for whom we have described the establishment of an intestinal ecosystem marked by the inflammatory response of the host and the enrichment of Ruminococcus gnavus."	28
37953184	fecal 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	The relationship between the intestinal microbiome and body mass index in children with cystic fibrosis.	"The nutritional status of children with cystic fibrosis (CF), as assessed by their body mass index percentile (BMIp), is a critical determinant of long-term health outcomes. While the intestinal microbiome plays an important role in nutrition, little is known regarding the relationship of the microbiome and BMIp in children with CF. Pediatric patients (< 18 years old) with CF and healthy comparison patients (HCs) were enrolled in the study and stool samples obtained. BMIp was categorized as Green Zone (BMIp > 50th), Yellow Zone (BMIp 25th-49th) and Red Zone (BMIp < 25th). Intestinal microbiome assessment was performed via 16S rRNA gene sequencing; microbial richness, diversity, and differential species abundance were assessed. Stool samples were collected from 107 children with CF and 50 age-matched HCs. Compared to HCs, children with CF were found to have lower bacterial richness, alpha-diversity, and a different microbial composition. When evaluating them by their BMIp color zone, richness and alpha-diversity were lowest in those in the Red Zone. In addition, an unclassified amplicon sequence variant (ASV) of Blautia, a known butyrate-producing anaerobe, was of lowest abundance in children in the Red Zone. Children with CF have a dysbiotic intestinal microbiome with specific changes that accompany changes in BMIp. Longitudinal assessments of the microbiome and its metabolic activities over time are needed to better understand how improvements in the microbiome may improve nutrition and enhance long-term survival in children with CF."	107
32275127	fecal 16S	Pediatric pulmonology	Age and environmental exposures influence the fecal bacteriome of young children with cystic fibrosis.	"Mechanisms that facilitate early infection and inflammation in cystic fibrosis (CF) are unclear. We previously showed that young CF children with secondhand smoke exposure (SHSe) have increased susceptibility to respiratory infections. We aimed to define the impact of SHSe and other external factors upon the fecal bacteriome in early CF. Twenty CF infants and children were enrolled, clinical data recorded, and hair nicotine measured as an objective surrogate of SHSe. Fecal samples were collected at clinic visits and bacteriome 16S rRNA gene sequencing performed. SHSe was associated with increased alpha diversity and increased relative abundance of Acinetobacter and Akkermansia, along with decreased Bifidobacterium and Lactobacillus. Recent antibiotic exposure predicted bacterial population structure in children less than 2 years of age and was associated with decreased Bacteroides relative abundance. Age was the strongest predictor of overall fecal bacterial composition and positively associated with Blautia and Parabacteroides. Weight for length was negatively associated with Staphylococcus relative abundance. SHSe and other external factors such as antibiotics appear to alter fecal bacterial composition in young CF children, but the strongest predictor of overall composition was age. These findings have implications for understanding the intestinal microbiome in young CF children."	20
32487494	fecal 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Development of the gut microbiota in early life: The impact of cystic fibrosis and antibiotic treatment.	"Patients with Cystic Fibrosis (CF) suffer from pancreatic insufficiency, lipid malabsorption and gastrointestinal complaints, next to progressive pulmonary disease. Altered mucosal homoeostasis due to malfunctioning chloride channels results in an adapted microbial composition of the gastrointestinal and the respiratory tract. Additionally, antibiotic treatment has the potential to distort resident microbial communities dramatically. This study aims to investigate early life development of the gut microbial community composition of children with CF compared to healthy infants and to study the independent effects of antibiotics taking into account other clinical and lifestyle factors. Faecal samples from 20 infants with CF and 45 healthy infants were collected regularly during the first 18 months of life and microbial composition was determined using 16S rRNA based sequencing. We observed significant differences in the overall microbiota composition between infants with CF and healthy infants (p<0.001). Akkermansia and Anaerostipes were significantly more abundant in control infants, whereas Streptococci and E. coli were significantly more abundant in infants with CF, also after correction for several clinical factors (p<0.05). Antibiotic use in infants with CF was associated with a lower alpha diversity, a reduced abundance of Bifidobacterium and Bacteroides, and a higher abundance of Enterococcus. Microbial development of the gut is different in infants with CF compared to healthy infants from the first months of life on, and further deviates over time, in part as a result of antibiotic treatment. The resulting dysbiosis may have significant functional consequences for the microbial ecosystem in CF patients."	20
28279152	fecal 16S	BMC microbiology	The altered gut microbiota in adults with cystic fibrosis.	"Cystic Fibrosis (CF) is an autosomal recessive disease that affects the function of a number of organs, principally the lungs, but also the gastrointestinal tract. The manifestations of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) dysfunction in the gastrointestinal tract, as well as frequent antibiotic exposure, undoubtedly disrupts the gut microbiota. To analyse the effects of CF and its management on the microbiome, we compared the gut microbiota of 43 individuals with CF during a period of stability, to that of 69 non-CF controls using 454-pyrosequencing of the 16S rRNA gene. The impact of clinical parameters, including antibiotic therapy, on the results was also assessed. The CF-associated microbiome had reduced microbial diversity, an increase in Firmicutes and a reduction in Bacteroidetes compared to the non-CF controls. While the greatest number of differences in taxonomic abundances of the intestinal microbiota was observed between individuals with CF and the healthy controls, gut microbiota differences were also reported between people with CF when grouped by clinical parameters including % predicted FEV (measure of lung dysfunction) and the number of intravenous (IV) antibiotic courses in the previous 12 months. Notably, CF individuals presenting with severe lung dysfunction (% predicted FEV ≤ 40%) had significantly (p < 0.05) reduced gut microbiota diversity relative to those presenting with mild or moderate dysfunction. A significant negative correlation (-0.383, Simpson's Diversity Index) was also observed between the number of IV antibiotic courses and gut microbiota diversity. This is one of the largest single-centre studies on gut microbiota in stable adults with CF and demonstrates the significantly altered gut microbiota, including reduced microbial diversity seen in CF patients compared to healthy controls. The data show the impact that CF and it's management have on gut microbiota, presenting the opportunity to develop CF specific probiotics to minimise microbiota alterations."	43
38749891	fecal 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Impact of extended Elexacaftor/Tezacaftor/Ivacaftor therapy on the gut microbiome in cystic fibrosis.	"There is a paucity of knowledge on the longer-term effects of CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) modulator therapies upon the gut microbiome and associated outcomes. In a pilot study, we investigated longitudinal Elexacaftor/Tezacaftor/Ivacaftor (ETI) therapy on the gut microbiota, metabolomic functioning, and clinical outcomes in people with CF (pwCF). Faecal samples from 20 pwCF were acquired before and then following 3, 6, and 17+ months of ETI therapy. Samples were subjected to microbiota sequencing and targeted metabolomics to profile and quantify short-chain fatty acid composition. Ten healthy matched controls were included for comparison. Clinical data, including markers of intestinal function were integrated to investigate relationships. Extended ETI therapy increased core microbiota diversity and composition, which translated to gradual shifts in whole microbiota composition towards that observed in healthy controls. Despite becoming more similar over time, CF microbiota and functional metabolite compositions remained significantly different to healthy controls. Antibiotic treatment for pulmonary infection significantly explained a relatively large degree of variation within the whole microbiota and rarer satellite taxa. Clinical outcomes were not significantly different following ETI. Whilst differences persisted, a positive trajectory towards the microbiota observed in healthy controls was found. We posit that progression was predominately impeded by pulmonary antibiotics administration. We recommend future studies use integrated omics approaches within a combination of long-term longitudinal patient studies and model experimental systems. This will deepen our understanding of the impacts of CFTR modulator therapy and respiratory antibiotic interventions upon the gut microbiome and gastrointestinal pathophysiology in CF."	20
27595636	fecal 16S	"Clinical nutrition (Edinburgh, Scotland)"	Associations between micronutrient intakes and gut microbiota in a group of adults with cystic fibrosis.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) involves chronic inflammation and oxidative stress affecting mainly the respiratory and digestive systems. Survival rates for CF have improved with advances in treatment including nutritional interventions such as micronutrient supplementation. Diet can modulate gut microbiota in the general population with consequences on local and systemic immunity, and inflammation. The gut microbiota appears disrupted and may associate with pulmonary status in CF. This study investigated associations between micronutrient intakes and gut microbiota variations in a group of adults with CF. Faecal microbiota of sixteen free-living adults with CF was profiled by 16ss rDNA sequencing on the GS-FLX platform. Associations were tested between UniFrac distances of faecal microbiota and time-corresponding micronutrient intakes. Associations between relative abundances of bacterial taxa and micronutrient intakes (those showing significant associations with UniFrac distances) were examined by Spearman correlation. Unweighted UniFrac distances were associated with intakes of potassium and antioxidant vitamins C, E and beta-carotene equivalents, whereas weighted UniFrac distances were associated with antioxidant vitamins riboflavin, niacin equivalents, beta-carotene equivalents and vitamin A equivalents. Intakes of beta-carotene equivalents, vitamin C, vitamin E, niacin equivalents and riboflavin correlated negatively with Bacteroides and/or its corresponding higher level taxa. Intakes of beta-carotene equivalents and vitamin E also positively correlated with Firmicutes and specific taxa belonging to Firmicutes. Some micronutrients, particularly antioxidant vitamins, correlated with gut microbiota variations in the studied cohort. Further research is required to clarify whether antioxidant vitamin intakes can influence CF gut microbiota and potential clinical/therapeutic implications in CF."	16
35902830	fecal 16S	BMC pulmonary medicine	Gut Bifidobacteria enrichment following oral Lactobacillus-supplementation is associated with clinical improvements in children with cystic fibrosis.	"Relationships between gut microbiomes and airway immunity have been established in murine and human studies of allergy and asthma. Early life Lactobacillus supplementation alters the composition and metabolic productivity of the gut microbiome. However, little is known of how Lactobacillus supplementation impacts the gut microbiota in children with cystic fibrosis (CF) and whether specific microbiota states that arise following gut microbiome manipulation relate to pulmonary outcomes. Stool samples were collected from CF patients enrolled in a multi-center, double-blind, randomized placebo-controlled trial of daily Lactobacillus rhamnosus strain GG (LGG) probiotic supplementation over a 12-month period. Fecal 16S rRNA biomarker sequencing was used to profile fecal bacterial microbiota and analyses were performed in QiiME. Bifidobacteria-dominated fecal microbiota were more likely to arise in LGG-treated children with CF (P = 0.04). Children with Bifidobacteria-dominated gut microbiota had a reduced rate of pulmonary exacerbations (IRR = 0.55; 95% CI 0.25 to 0.82; P = 0.01), improved pulmonary function (+ 20.00% of predicted value FEV; 95% CI 8.05 to 31.92; P = 0.001), lower intestinal inflammation (Calprotectin; Coef =  - 16.53 μg g feces; 95% CI - 26.80 to - 6.26; P = 0.002) and required fewer antibiotics (IRR = 0.43; 95% CI 0.22 to 0.69; P = 0.04) compared to children with Bacteroides-dominated microbiota who were less likely to have received LGG. The majority of pediatric CF patients in this study possessed a Bacteroides- or Bifidobacteria-dominated gut microbiota. Bifidobacteria-dominated gut microbiota were more likely to be associated with LGG-supplementation and with better clinical outcomes."	
38104000	fecal 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	The gut microbiota in adults with cystic fibrosis compared to colorectal cancer.	"Gut dysbiosis is implicated in colorectal cancer (CRC) pathogenesis. Cystic fibrosis (CF) is associated with both gut dysbiosis and increased CRC risk. We therefore compared the faecal microbiota from individuals with CF to CRC and screening samples. We also assessed changes in CRC-associated taxa before and after triple CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) modulator therapy. Bacterial DNA amplification comprising V4 16S rRNA analysis was conducted on 84 baseline and 53 matched follow-up stool samples from adults with CF. These data were compared to an existing cohort of 430 CRC and 491 control gFOBT samples from the NHS Bowel Cancer Screening Programme. Data were also compared to 26 previously identified CRC-associated taxa from a published meta-analysis. Faecal CF samples had a lower alpha diversity and clustered distinctly from both CRC and control samples, with no clear clinical variables explaining the variation. Compared to controls, CF samples had an increased relative abundance in 6 of the 20 enriched CRC-associated taxa and depletion of 2 of the 6 taxa which have been reported as reduced in CRC. Commencing triple modulator therapy had subtle influence on the relative abundance of CRC-associated microbiota (n = 23 paired CF samples). CF stool samples were clearly dysbiotic, clustering distinctly from both CRC and control samples. Several bacterial shifts in CF samples resembled those observed in CRC. Studies assessing the impact of dietary or other interventions and the longer-term use of CFTR modulators on reducing this potentially pro-oncogenic milieu are needed."	137
31959989	fecal 16S	Nature medicine	Fecal dysbiosis in infants with cystic fibrosis is associated with early linear growth failure.	"Most infants with cystic fibrosis (CF) have pancreatic exocrine insufficiency that results in nutrient malabsorption and requires oral pancreatic enzyme replacement. Newborn screening for CF has enabled earlier diagnosis, nutritional intervention and enzyme replacement for these infants, allowing most infants with CF to achieve their weight goals by 12 months of age. Nevertheless, most infants with CF continue to have poor linear growth during their first year of life. Although this early linear growth failure is associated with worse long-term respiratory function and survival, the determinants of body length in infants with CF have not been defined. Several characteristics of the CF gastrointestinal (GI) tract, including inflammation, maldigestion and malabsorption, may promote intestinal dysbiosis. As GI microbiome activities are known to affect endocrine functions, the intestinal microbiome of infants with CF may also impact growth. We identified an early, progressive fecal dysbiosis that distinguished infants with CF and low length from infants with CF and normal length. This dysbiosis included altered abundances of taxa that perform functions that are important for GI health, nutrient harvest and growth hormone signaling, including decreased abundance of Bacteroidetes and increased abundance of Proteobacteria. Thus, the GI microbiota represent a potential therapeutic target for the correction of low linear growth in infants with CF."	
29232848	fecal 16S	Nutrients	A Metagenomic and in Silico Functional Prediction of Gut Microbiota Profiles May Concur in Discovering New Cystic Fibrosis Patient-Targeted Probiotics.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a life-limiting hereditary disorder that results in aberrant mucosa in the lungs and digestive tract, chronic respiratory infections, chronic inflammation, and the need for repeated antibiotic treatments. Probiotics have been demonstrated to improve the quality of life of CF patients. We investigated the distribution of gut microbiota (GM) bacteria to identify new potential probiotics for CF patients on the basis of GM patterns. Fecal samples of 28 CF patients and 31 healthy controls (HC) were collected and analyzed by 16S rRNA-based pyrosequencing analysis of GM, to produce CF-HC paired maps of the distribution of operational taxonomic units (OTUs), and by Phylogenetic Investigation of Communities by Reconstruction of Unobserved States (PICRUSt) for Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) biomarker prediction. The maps were scanned to highlight the distribution of bacteria commonly claimed as probiotics, such as bifidobacteria and lactobacilli, and of butyrate-producing colon bacteria, such as  spp. and  The analyses highlighted 24 OTUs eligible as putative probiotics. Eleven and nine species were prevalently associated with the GM of CF and HC subjects, respectively. Their KEGG prediction provided differential CF and HC pathways, indeed associated with health-promoting biochemical activities in the latter case. GM profiling and KEGG biomarkers concurred in the evaluation of nine bacterial species as novel putative probiotics that could be investigated for the nutritional management of CF patients."	28
23867070	fecal 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Amoxicillin-clavulanic acid resistance in fecal Enterobacteriaceae from patients with cystic fibrosis and healthy siblings.	"The present study set out to detect and identify amoxicillin-clavulanic acid (AMC)-resistant Enterobacteriaceae in fecal samples of two patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) and their respective siblings. Fecal Enterobacteriaceae were enumerated onto EMB agar containing amoxicillin (AMX). A total of 173 CF isolates and 41 sibling isolates were grouped into seven Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption Ionization-Time of Flight Mass Spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) clusters and identified through 16S rRNA and rpoB sequence analysis. The fecal microbiota of patients with CF revealed a higher prevalence of AMX resistant Enterobacteriaceae compared to that of their healthy siblings. Whereas all selected isolates of healthy siblings were assigned to Escherichia coli, isolates of patients with CF belonged to Klebsiella oxytoca (58.4%), E. coli (28.3%), Klebsiella variicola (7.5%) or Citrobacter sp. (5.8%). All tested CF isolates showed a high resistance rate to AMX, and a lower level of resistance to the combination with clavulanic acid. In contrast, all tested sibling isolates were susceptible for both AMX and AMC. The higher abundance of AMX resistance in the investigated patients with CF suggests that frequent AMC administration may be one of the major contributing factors in the proliferation of Enterobacteriaceae and the development of resistant strains in the gastrointestinal tract."	173
37813785	fecal 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Changes in fecal lipidome after treatment with ivacaftor without changes in microbiome or bile acids.	"Alterations in gastrointestinal health are prominent manifestations of cystic fibrosis (CF) and can independently impact pulmonary function. Ivacaftor has been associated with robust improvements in pulmonary function and weight gain, but less is known about the impact of ivacaftor on the fecal microbiome, lipidome, and bile acids. Stool samples from 18 patients with CF and gating mutations (ages 6-61 years, 13 pancreatic insufficient) were analyzed for fecal microbiome and lipidome composition as well as bile acid concentrations at baseline and after 3 months of treatment with ivacaftor. Microbiome composition was also assessed in a healthy reference cohort. Alpha and beta diversity of the microbiome were different between CF and reference cohort at baseline, but no treatment effect was seen in the CF cohort between baseline and 3 months. Seven lipids increased with treatment. No differences were seen in bile acid concentrations after treatment in CF. At baseline, 403 lipids and unconjugated bile acids were different between pancreatic insufficient (PI-CF) and sufficient (PS-CF) groups and 107 lipids were different between PI-CF and PS-CF after 3 months of treatment. The composition and diversity of the fecal microbiome were different in CF as compared to a healthy reference, and did not change after 3 months of ivacaftor. We detected modest differences in the fecal lipidome with treatment. Differences in lipid and bile acid profiles between PS-CF and PI-CF were attenuated after 3 months of treatment."	18
31209076	fecal 16S	Journal of bacteriology	Altered Stool Microbiota of Infants with Cystic Fibrosis Shows a Reduction in Genera Associated with Immune Programming from Birth.	"Previous work from our group indicated an association between the gastrointestinal microbiota of infants with cystic fibrosis (CF) and airway disease in this population. Here we report that stool microbiota of infants with CF demonstrates an altered but largely unchanging within-individual bacterial diversity (alpha diversity) over the first year of life, in contrast to the infants without CF (control cohort), which showed the expected increase in alpha diversity over the first year. The beta diversity, or between-sample diversity, of these two cohorts was significantly different over the first year of life and was statistically significantly associated with airway exacerbations, confirming our earlier findings. Compared with control infants, infants with CF had reduced levels of , a bacterial genus associated with immune modulation, as early as 6 weeks of life, and this significant reduction of  spp. in the cohort with CF persisted over the entire first year of life. Only two other genera were significantly different across the first year of life:  was significantly reduced and  was significantly increased. Other genera showed differences between the two cohorts but only at selected time points.  studies demonstrated that exposure of the apical face of polarized intestinal cell lines to  species supernatants significantly reduced production of interleukin 8 (IL-8), suggesting a mechanism whereby changes in the intestinal microbiota could impact inflammation in CF. This work further establishes an association between gastrointestinal microbiota, inflammation, and airway disease in infants with CF and presents a potential opportunity for therapeutic interventions beginning in early life. There is growing evidence for a link between gastrointestinal bacterial communities and airway disease progression in CF. We demonstrate that infants with CF ≤1 year of age show a distinct stool microbiota versus that of control infants of a comparable age. We detected associations between the gut microbiome and airway exacerbation events in the cohort of infants with CF, and  studies provided one possible mechanism for this observation. These data clarify that current therapeutics do not establish in infants with CF a gastrointestinal microbiota like that in healthy infants, and we suggest that interventions that direct the gastrointestinal microbiota closer to a healthy state may provide systemic benefits to these patients during a critical window of immune programming that might have implications for lifelong health."	?
38778229	fecal 16S	Pediatric research	"Faecal lipid profile as a new marker of fat maldigestion, malabsorption and microbiota."	"Fat malabsorption in children with cystic fibrosis (CF) leads to poor nutritional status and altered colonic microbiota. This study aimed at establishing the faecal lipid profile in children with CF, and exploring associations between the faecal lipidome and microbiota. Cross-sectional observational study with children with CF and an age-matched control group. Faecal lipidome was analysed by UHLC-HRMS and microbiota profiling by 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing. Among 234 identified lipid species, five lipidome clusters (LC) were obtained with significant differences in triacylglycerols (TG), diacylglycerols (DG), monoacylglycerols (MG) and fatty-acids (FA): LC1 subjects with good digestion and absorption: low TG and low MG and FA; LC2 good digestion and poor absorption: low TG and high MG and FA; LC3 Mild digestion and poor absorption: intermediate TG and high MG and FA; LC4 poor digestion and absorption: high TG and high MG and FA; LC5 outliers. Bacteroidota and Verrucomicrobiota decreased over LC1-LC4, while Proteobacteria increased. Nutritional status indicators were significantly higher in LC1 and decreased over LC2-LC4. Assessing faecal lipidome may be relevant to determine how dietary lipids are digested and absorbed. This new evidence might be a method to support targeted nutritional interventions towards reverting fat maldigestion or malabsorption. Lipidomic analysis enabled the identification of the lipid species related to maldigestion (triglycerides) or malabsorption (monoglycerides and fatty acids). Children with cystic fibrosis can be grouped depending on the faecal lipidome profile related to dietary fat maldigestion or malabsorption. The lipidome profile in faeces is related to the composition of microbiota and nutritional status indicators."	?
32848839	fecal 16S	Frontiers in physiology	Lactose-Induced Chronic Diarrhea Results From Abnormal Luminal Microbial Fermentation and Disorder of Ion Transport in the Colon.	"Diarrhea is one of the major abdominal symptoms in lactose-intolerant subjects. The changes in the large intestinal luminal environment and disorder of the epithelial ion transport in lactose-induced diarrhea remain unclear. The present study aimed to investigate the effect of an incremental high-lactose diet (IHLD, 30%/40%/50%) on luminal microbiota, microbiota-derived metabolite concentrations and colonic ion transport. Gut microbiota were analyzed by 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing and the concentration of SCFAs by gas chromatography, galactose, lactose and lactic acid through assay kit; Ussing chamber was performed to detect basal and stimulated ion transport; The expression and location of SCFA transporters, the Na-H exchanger 3(NHE3), cystic fibrosis transporter regulater (CFTR) and NKCC1 in the colon mucosa were analyzed by western and immunostaining. The concentrations of lactose, galactose and lactic acid of the cecal content were markedly increased ( < 0.01) and SCFA concentration was significantly decreased ( < 0.01). This was associated with depletion of the Lachnospiraceae NK4A136 group and Ruminococcaceae UCG-005 and increased relative abundance of Lactobacillus, escherichia-shigella and megamonas in the cecal microbiota. The expression of monocarboxylate transporter 1 was decreased in the colonic mucosa of the IHLD group. Low NHE3 expression and phosphorylation levels, and decreases in delta basal short circuit current after apical Na removal in the colonic mucosa of the IHLD group contributed to Na accumulation in the lumen and decrease stimulated Cl secretion with low CFTR and NKCC1 expression would compensate for water and electrolyte loss during the diarrhea process. These results indicated that the persistence of the diarrhea state was maintained by abnormal colonic microbiota fermentation leading to high concentrations of lactose, galactose and lactic acid and low SCFAs in the lumen, and decreased Na absorption with the low NHE3 expression and phosphorylation levels."	?
37645804	fecal 16S	medRxiv : the preprint server for health sciences	Longitudinal Profiling of the Intestinal Microbiome in Children with Cystic Fibrosis Treated with Elexacaftor-Tezacaftor-Ivacaftor.	"The intestinal microbiome influences growth and disease progression in children with cystic fibrosis (CF). Elexacaftor-tezacaftor-ivacaftor (ELX/TEZ/IVA), the newest pharmaceutical modulator for CF, restores function of the pathogenic mutated CFTR channel. We performed a single-center longitudinal analysis of the effect of ELX/TEZ/IVA on the intestinal microbiome, intestinal inflammation, and clinical parameters in children with CF. Following ELX/TEZ/IVA, children with CF had significant improvements in BMI, ppFEV and required fewer antibiotics for respiratory infections. Intestinal microbiome diversity increased following ELX/TEZ/IVA coupled with a decrease in the intestinal carriage of , the predominant respiratory pathogen in children with CF. There was a reduced abundance of microbiome-encoded antibiotic-resistance genes. Microbial pathways for aerobic respiration were reduced after ELX/TEZ/IVA. The abundance of microbial acid tolerance genes was reduced, indicating microbial adaptation to increased CFTR function. In all, this study represents the first comprehensive analysis of the intestinal microbiome in children with CF receiving ELX/TEZ/IVA."	?
38960841	fecal 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Gut microbiota in adults with cystic fibrosis: Implications for the severity of the CFTR gene mutation and nutritional status.	"Microbial dysbiosis has been linked to cystic fibrosis (CF); however, the composition of gut microbiota in adult CF patients in relation to severity of CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene mutation and nutritional status have not yet been explored. Study aimed to assess the gut microbiota composition in adults with CF, and its relationship with the severity of CFTR mutations, and BMI. Gut microbiota of 41 adults with CF, and 26 non-CF controls were compared using whole 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Differences in the microbial community between groups of patients classified according to the severity of CFTR mutations, and BMI were assessed. The alpha diversity, beta diversity, and taxa abundance were identified to reflect gut microbiota composition. Results showed a significant decrease in alpha diversity of bacterial communities in CF compared to non-CF group, but no significant difference between the CF groups distinguished by the severity of CFTR mutations. However, more severe mutations were associated with the higher relative abundance of Bacteroides and Streptococcus and the lower relative abundance of Faecalibacterium and Blautia. Undernourished CF patients showed significantly lower alpha diversity compared to non-CF group and CF patients with BMI within the norm. Significant differences in the structure of the gut microbiota between CF and non-CF groups, as well as between BMI groups were also found. Our research indicates that CF is associated with alterations in gut microbiota in adults. Additionally, in adult CF patients, the composition of the gut microbiota is also related to BMI."	41
31083321	fecal 16S	Journal of clinical medicine	Intestinal Inflammation in Children with Cystic Fibrosis Is Associated with Crohn's-Like Microbiota Disturbances.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a systemic genetic disease that leads to pulmonary and digestive disorders. In the majority of CF patients, the intestine is the site of chronic inflammation and microbiota disturbances. The link between gut inflammation and microbiota dysbiosis is still poorly understood. The main objective of this study was to assess gut microbiota composition in CF children depending on their intestinal inflammation. We collected fecal samples from 20 children with CF. Fecal calprotectin levels were measured and fecal microbiota was analyzed by 16S rRNA sequencing. We observed intestinal inflammation was associated with microbiota disturbances characterized mainly by increased abundances of ,  and , along with decreased abundances of ,  , and . Those changes exhibited similarities with that of Crohn's disease (CD), as evidenced by the elevated CD Microbial-Dysbiosis index that we applied for the first time in CF. Furthermore, the significant over-representation of  in children with intestinal inflammation appears to be specific to CF and raises the issue of gut-lung axis involvement. Taken together, our results provide new arguments to link gut microbiota and intestinal inflammation in CF and suggest the key role of the gut-lung axis in the CF evolution."	20
34895838	fecal 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Intestinal function and transit associate with gut microbiota dysbiosis in cystic fibrosis.	"Most people with cystic fibrosis (pwCF) suffer from gastrointestinal symptoms and are at risk of gut complications. Gut microbiota dysbiosis is apparent within the CF population across all age groups, with evidence linking dysbiosis to intestinal inflammation and other markers of health. This pilot study aimed to investigate the potential relationships between the gut microbiota and gastrointestinal physiology, transit, and health. Faecal samples from 10 pwCF and matched controls were subject to 16S rRNA sequencing. Results were combined with clinical metadata and MRI metrics of gut function to investigate relationships. pwCF had significantly reduced microbiota diversity compared to controls. Microbiota compositions were significantly different, suggesting remodelling of core and rarer satellite taxa in CF. Dissimilarity between groups was driven by a variety of taxa, including Escherichia coli, Bacteroides spp., Clostridium spp., and Faecalibacterium prausnitzii. The core taxa were explained primarily by CF disease, whilst the satellite taxa were associated with pulmonary antibiotic usage, CF disease, and gut function metrics. Species-specific ordination biplots revealed relationships between taxa and the clinical or MRI-based variables observed. Alterations in gut function and transit resultant of CF disease are associated with the gut microbiota composition, notably the satellite taxa. Delayed transit in the small intestine might allow for the expansion of satellite taxa resulting in potential downstream consequences for core community function in the colon."	10
31819107	fecal 16S	Scientific reports	Gut Microbiota in Children With Cystic Fibrosis: A Taxonomic and Functional Dysbiosis.	"Intestinal dysbiosis has been observed in children with cystic fibrosis (CF), yet the functional consequences are poorly understood. We investigated the functional capacity of intestinal microbiota and inflammation in children with CF. Stool samples were collected from 27 children with CF and 27 age and gender matched healthy controls (HC) (aged 0.8-18 years). Microbial communities were investigated by iTag sequencing of 16S rRNA genes and functional profiles predicted using Tax4Fun. Inflammation was measured by faecal calprotectin and M2-pyruvate kinase. Paediatric CF gastrointestinal microbiota demonstrated lower richness and diversity compared to HC. CF samples exhibited a marked taxonomic and inferred functional dysbiosis when compared to HC. In children with CF, we predicted an enrichment of genes involved in short-chain fatty acid (SCFA), antioxidant and nutrient metabolism (relevant for growth and nutrition) in CF. The notion of pro-inflammatory GI microbiota in children with CF is supported by positive correlations between intestinal inflammatory markers and both genera and functional pathways. We also observed an association between intestinal genera and both growth z-scores and FEV1%. These taxonomic and functional changes provide insights into gastrointestinal disease in children with CF and future gastrointestinal therapeutics for CF should explore the aforementioned pathways and microbial changes."	27
30521551	fecal 16S	PloS one	Gut microbiota signatures in cystic fibrosis: Loss of host CFTR function drives the microbiota enterophenotype.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a disorder affecting the respiratory, digestive, reproductive systems and sweat glands. This lethal hereditary disease has known or suspected links to the dysbiosis gut microbiota. High-throughput meta-omics-based approaches may assist in unveiling this complex network of symbiosis modifications. The aim of this study was to provide a predictive and functional model of the gut microbiota enterophenotype of pediatric patients affected by CF under clinical stability. Thirty-one fecal samples were collected from CF patients and healthy children (HC) (age range, 1-6 years) and analysed using targeted-metagenomics and metabolomics to characterize the ecology and metabolism of CF-linked gut microbiota. The multidimensional data were low fused and processed by chemometric classification analysis. The fused metagenomics and metabolomics based gut microbiota profile was characterized by a high abundance of Propionibacterium, Staphylococcus and Clostridiaceae, including Clostridium difficile, and a low abundance of Eggerthella, Eubacterium, Ruminococcus, Dorea, Faecalibacterium prausnitzii, and Lachnospiraceae, associated with overexpression of 4-aminobutyrate (GABA), choline, ethanol, propylbutyrate, and pyridine and low levels of sarcosine, 4-methylphenol, uracil, glucose, acetate, phenol, benzaldehyde, and methylacetate. The CF gut microbiota pattern revealed an enterophenotype intrinsically linked to disease, regardless of age, and with dysbiosis uninduced by reduced pancreatic function and only partially related to oral antibiotic administration or lung colonization/infection. All together, the results obtained suggest that the gut microbiota enterophenotypes of CF, together with endogenous and bacterial CF biomarkers, are direct expression of functional alterations at the intestinal level. Hence, it's possible to infer that CFTR impairment causes the gut ecosystem imbalance.This new understanding of CF host-gut microbiota interactions may be helpful to rationalize novel clinical interventions to improve the affected children's nutritional status and intestinal function."	31
28751714	fecal metagenomics	Scientific reports	A pilot study demonstrating the altered gut microbiota functionality in stable adults with Cystic Fibrosis.	"Cystic Fibrosis (CF) and its treatment result in an altered gut microbiota composition compared to non-CF controls. However, the impact of this on gut microbiota functionality has not been extensively characterised. Our aim was to conduct a proof-of-principle study to investigate if measurable changes in gut microbiota functionality occur in adult CF patients compared to controls. Metagenomic DNA was extracted from faecal samples from six CF patients and six non-CF controls and shotgun metagenomic sequencing was performed on the MiSeq platform. Metabolomic analysis using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry was conducted on faecal water. The gut microbiota of the CF group was significantly different compared to the non-CF controls, with significantly increased Firmicutes and decreased Bacteroidetes. Functionality was altered, with higher pathway abundances and gene families involved in lipid (e.g. PWY 6284 unsaturated fatty acid biosynthesis (p = 0.016)) and xenobiotic metabolism (e.g. PWY-5430 meta-cleavage pathway of aromatic compounds (p = 0.004)) in CF patients compared to the controls. Significant differences in metabolites occurred between the two groups. This proof-of-principle study demonstrates that measurable changes in gut microbiota functionality occur in CF patients compared to controls. Larger studies are thus needed to interrogate this further."	6
27506816	fecal metagenomics	BMC genomics	Is genotyping of single isolates sufficient for population structure analysis of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in cystic fibrosis airways?	"The primary cause of morbidity and mortality in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients is lung infection by Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Therefore much work has been done to understand the adaptation and evolution of P. aeruginosa in the CF lung. However, many of these studies have focused on longitudinally collected single isolates, and only few have included cross-sectional analyses of entire P. aeruginosa populations in sputum samples. To date only few studies have used the approach of metagenomic analysis for the purpose of investigating P. aeruginosa populations in CF airways. We analysed five metagenomes together with longitudinally collected single isolates from four recently chronically infected CF patients. With this approach we were able to link the clone type and the majority of SNP profiles of the single isolates to that of the metagenome(s) for each individual patient. Based on our analysis we find that when having access to comprehensive collections of longitudinal single isolates it is possible to rediscover the genotypes of the single isolates in the metagenomic samples. This suggests that information gained from genome sequencing of comprehensive collections of single isolates is satisfactory for many investigations of adaptation and evolution of P. aeruginosa to the CF airways."	5
34525965	fecal metagenomics	BMC microbiology	Infants with cystic fibrosis have altered fecal functional capacities with potential clinical and metabolic consequences.	"Infants with cystic fibrosis (CF) suffer from gastrointestinal (GI) complications, including pancreatic insufficiency and intestinal inflammation, which have been associated with impaired nutrition and growth. Recent evidence identified altered fecal microbiota taxonomic compositions in infants with CF relative to healthy infants that were characterized by differences in the abundances of taxa associated with GI health and nutrition. Furthermore, these taxonomic differences were more pronounced in low length infants with CF, suggesting a potential link to linear growth failure. We hypothesized that these differences would entail shifts in the microbiome's functional capacities that could contribute to inflammation and nutritional failure in infants with CF. To test this hypothesis, we compared fecal microbial metagenomic content between healthy infants and infants with CF, supplemented with an analysis of fecal metabolomes in infants with CF. We identified notable differences in CF fecal microbial functional capacities, including metabolic and environmental response functions, compared to healthy infants that intensified during the first year of life. A machine learning-based longitudinal metagenomic age analysis of healthy and CF fecal metagenomic functional profiles further demonstrated that these differences are characterized by a CF-associated delay in the development of these functional capacities. Moreover, we found metagenomic differences in functions related to metabolism among infants with CF that were associated with diet and antibiotic exposure, and identified several taxa as potential drivers of these functional differences. An integrated metagenomic and metabolomic analysis further revealed that abundances of several fecal GI metabolites important for nutrient absorption, including three bile acids, correlated with specific microbes in infants with CF. Our results highlight several metagenomic and metabolomic factors, including bile acids and other microbial metabolites, that may impact nutrition, growth, and GI health in infants with CF. These factors could serve as promising avenues for novel microbiome-based therapeutics to improve health outcomes in these infants."	?
37474497	metagenomics	Nature communications	Genome-scale metabolic modeling of Aspergillus fumigatus strains reveals growth dependencies on the lung microbiome.	"Aspergillus fumigatus, an opportunistic human pathogen, frequently infects the lungs of people with cystic fibrosis and is one of the most common causes of infectious-disease death in immunocompromised patients. Here, we construct 252 strain-specific, genome-scale metabolic models of this important fungal pathogen to study and better understand the metabolic component of its pathogenic versatility. The models show that 23.1% of A. fumigatus metabolic reactions are not conserved across strains and are mainly associated with amino acid, nucleotide, and nitrogen metabolism. Profiles of non-conserved reactions and growth-supporting reaction fluxes are sufficient to differentiate strains, for example by environmental or clinical origin. In addition, shotgun metagenomics analysis of sputum from 40 cystic fibrosis patients (15 females, 25 males) before and after diagnosis with an A. fumigatus colonization suggests that the fungus shapes the lung microbiome towards a more beneficial fungal growth environment associated with aromatic amino acid availability and the shikimate pathway. Our findings are starting points for the development of drugs or microbiome intervention strategies targeting fungal metabolic needs for survival and colonization in the non-native environment of the human lung."	40
24643867	metagenomics	mBio	Biogeochemical forces shape the composition and physiology of polymicrobial communities in the cystic fibrosis lung.	"The cystic fibrosis (CF) lung contains thick mucus colonized by opportunistic pathogens which adapt to the CF lung environment over decades. The difficulty associated with sampling airways has impeded a thorough examination of the biochemical microhabitats these pathogens are exposed to. An indirect approach is to study the responses of microbial communities to these microhabitats, facilitated by high-throughput sequencing of microbial DNA and RNA from sputum samples. Microbial metagenomes and metatranscriptomes were sequenced from multiple CF patients, and the reads were assigned taxonomy and function through sequence homology to NCBI and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) database hierarchies. For a comparison, saliva microbial metagenomes from the Human Microbiome Project (HMP) were also analyzed. These analyses identified that functions encoded and expressed by CF microbes were significantly enriched for amino acid catabolism, folate biosynthesis, and lipoic acid biosynthesis. The data indicate that the community uses oxidative phosphorylation as a major energy source but that terminal electron acceptors were diverse. Nitrate reduction was the most abundant anaerobic respiratory pathway, and genes for nitrate reductase were largely assigned to Pseudomonas and Rothia. Although many reductive pathways of the nitrogen cycle were present, the cycle was incomplete, because the oxidative pathways were absent. Due to the abundant amino acid catabolism and incomplete nitrogen cycle, the CF microbial community appears to accumulate ammonia. This finding was verified experimentally using a CF bronchiole culture model system. The data also revealed abundant sensing and transport of iron, ammonium, zinc, and other metals along with a low-oxygen environment. This study reveals the core biochemistry and physiology of the CF microbiome. IMPORTANCE The cystic fibrosis (CF) microbial community is complex and adapts to the environmental conditions of the lung over the lifetime of a CF patient. This analysis illustrates the core functions of the CF microbial community in the context of CF lung biochemistry. There are many studies of the metabolism and physiology of individual microbes within the CF lung, but none that collectively analyze data from the whole microbiome. Understanding the core metabolism of microbes that inhabit the CF lung can provide new targets for novel therapies. The fundamental processes that CF pathogens rely on for survival may represent an Achilles heel for this pathogenic community. Novel therapies that are designed to disrupt understudied survival strategies of the CF microbial community may succeed against otherwise untreatable or antibiotic-resistant microbes."	?
38762736	metagenomics	Respiratory research	Comparative microbiome analysis in cystic fibrosis and non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis.	"Bronchiectasis is a condition characterized by abnormal and irreversible bronchial dilation resulting from lung tissue damage and can be categorized into two main groups: cystic fibrosis (CF) and non-CF bronchiectasis (NCFB). Both diseases are marked by recurrent infections, inflammatory exacerbations, and lung damage. Given that infections are the primary drivers of disease progression, characterization of the respiratory microbiome can shed light on compositional alterations and susceptibility to antimicrobial drugs in these cases compared to healthy individuals. To assess the microbiota in the two studied diseases, 35 subjects were recruited, comprising 10 NCFB and 13 CF patients and 12 healthy individuals. Nasopharyngeal swabs and induced sputum were collected, and total DNA was extracted. The DNA was then sequenced by the shotgun method and evaluated using the SqueezeMeta pipeline and R. We observed reduced species diversity in both disease cohorts, along with distinct microbial compositions and profiles of antimicrobial resistance genes, compared to healthy individuals. The nasopharynx exhibited a consistent microbiota composition across all cohorts. Enrichment of members of the Burkholderiaceae family and an increased Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio in the CF cohort emerged as key distinguishing factors compared to NCFB group. Staphylococcus aureus and Prevotella shahii also presented differential abundance in the CF and NCFB cohorts, respectively, in the lower respiratory tract. Considering antimicrobial resistance, a high number of genes related to antibiotic efflux were detected in both disease groups, which correlated with the patient's clinical data. Bronchiectasis is associated with reduced microbial diversity and a shift in microbial and resistome composition compared to healthy subjects. Despite some similarities, CF and NCFB present significant differences in microbiome composition and antimicrobial resistance profiles, suggesting the need for customized management strategies for each disease."	35
30685331	metagenomics	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Metagenome - Inferred bacterial replication rates in cystic fibrosis airways.	"Bacterial replication rates were determined from metagenome sequencing of nasal lavage, throat swabs and induced sputa collected from healthy subjects and individuals with COPD or cystic fibrosis. More than 90% of peak-to-trough coverage ratios of major clones were above 1.4 indicating that the most abundant bacterial species in the microbial communities were replicating in the airways including common inhabitants such as Prevotella and Streptococcus species as well as the cystic fibrosis pathogens Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The populations of P. aeruginosa and S. aureus were replicating their pool of chromosomes more slowly than the populations of the common inhabitants of a healthy airway microbial flora. The assessment of growth dynamics in microbial metagenomes could become a decision-making tool for the diagnosis and management of bacterial infections in cystic fibrosis."	?
36748565	metagenomics	Journal of medical microbiology	Meta-analysis of sputum microbiome studies identifies airway disease-specific taxonomic and functional signatures.	"Studying taxonomic and functional signatures of respiratory microbiomes provide a better understanding of airway diseases.. Several human airway metagenomics studies have identified taxonomic and functional features restricted to a single disease condition and the findings are not comparable across airway diseases due to use of different samples, NGS platforms, and bioinformatics databases and tools. To study the microbial taxonomic and functional components of sputum microbiome across airway diseases and healthy smokers. Here, 57 whole metagenome shotgun sequencing (WMSS) runs coming from the sputum of five airway diseases: asthma, bronchiectasis, chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases (COPD), cystic fibrosis (CF), tuberculosis (TB), and healthy smokers as the control were reanalysed using a common WMSS analysis pipeline. Shannon's index (alpha diversity) of the healthy smoker group was the highest among all. The beta diversity showed that the sputum microbiome is distinct in major airway diseases such as asthma, COPD and cystic fibrosis. The microbial composition based on differential analysis showed that there are specific markers for each airway disease like  as a marker for COPD and  as a marker  cystic fibrosis. Pathways and metabolites identified from the sputum microbiome of these five diseases and healthy smokers also show specific markers. 'ppGpp biosynthesis' and 'purine ribonucleosides degradation' pathways were identified as differential markers for bronchiectasis and COPD. In this meta-analysis, besides bacteria kingdom,  was detected in asthma and COPD, and Roseolovirus human betaherpesvirus 7 was detected in COPD. Our analysis showed that the majority of the gene families specific to the drug-resistant associated genes were detected from opportunistic pathogens across all the groups. In summary, the specific species in the sputum of airway diseases along with the microbial features like specific gene families, pathways, and metabolites were identified which can be explored for better diagnosis and therapy."	57
22951208	metagenomics	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Metagenomics and metatranscriptomics: windows on CF-associated viral and microbial communities.	"Samples collected from CF patient airways often contain large amounts of host-derived nucleic acids that interfere with recovery and purification of microbial and viral nucleic acids. This study describes metagenomic and metatranscriptomic methods that address these issues. Microbial and viral metagenomes, and microbial metatranscriptomes, were successfully prepared from sputum samples from five adult CF patients. Contaminating host DNA was dramatically reduced in the metagenomes. Each CF patient presented a unique microbiome; in some Pseudomonas aeruginosa was replaced by other opportunistic bacteria. Even though the taxonomic composition of the microbiomes is very different, the metabolic potentials encoded by the community are very similar. The viral communities were dominated by phages that infect major CF pathogens. The metatranscriptomes reveal differential expression of encoded metabolic potential with changing health status. Microbial and viral metagenomics combined with microbial transcriptomics characterize the dynamic polymicrobial communities found in CF airways, revealing both the taxa present and their current metabolic activities. These approaches can facilitate the development of individualized treatment plans and novel therapeutic approaches."	5
28187782	metagenomics	Microbiome	Sputum DNA sequencing in cystic fibrosis: non-invasive access to the lung microbiome and to pathogen details.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a life-threatening genetic disorder, characterized by chronic microbial lung infections due to abnormally viscous mucus secretions within airways. The clinical management of CF typically involves regular respiratory-tract cultures in order to identify pathogens and to guide treatment. However, culture-based methods can miss atypical or slow-growing microbes. Furthermore, the isolated microbes are often not classified at the strain level due to limited taxonomic resolution. Here, we show that untargeted metagenomic sequencing of sputum DNA can provide valuable information beyond the possibilities of culture-based diagnosis. We sequenced the sputum of six CF patients and eleven control samples (including healthy subjects and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease patients) without prior depletion of human DNA or cell size selection, thus obtaining the most unbiased and comprehensive characterization of CF respiratory tract microbes to date. We present detailed descriptions of the CF and healthy lung microbiome, reconstruct near complete pathogen genomes, and confirm that the CF lungs consistently exhibit reduced microbial diversity. Crucially, the obtained genomic sequences enabled a detailed identification of the exact pathogen strain types, when analyzed in conjunction with existing multi-locus sequence typing databases. We also detected putative pathogenicity islands and indicators of antibiotic resistance, in good agreement with independent clinical tests. Unbiased sputum metagenomics provides an in-depth profile of the lung pathogen microbiome, which is complementary to and more detailed than standard culture-based reporting. Furthermore, functional and taxonomic features of the dominant pathogens, including antibiotics resistances, can be deduced-supporting accurate and non-invasive clinical diagnosis."	6
38612702	metagenomics	International journal of molecular sciences	Insights into the Adolescent Cystic Fibrosis Airway Microbiome Using Shotgun Metagenomics.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an inherited genetic disorder which manifests primarily in airway disease. Recent advances in molecular technologies have unearthed the diverse polymicrobial nature of the CF airway. Numerous studies have characterised the genus-level composition of this airway community using targeted 16S rDNA sequencing. Here, we employed whole-genome shotgun metagenomics to provide a more comprehensive understanding of the early CF airway microbiome. We collected 48 sputum samples from 11 adolescents and children with CF over a 12-month period and performed shotgun metagenomics on the Illumina NextSeq platform. We carried out functional and taxonomic analysis of the lung microbiome at the species and strain levels. Correlations between microbial diversity measures and independent demographic and clinical variables were performed. Shotgun metagenomics detected a greater diversity of bacteria than culture-based methods. A large proportion of the top 25 most-dominant species were anaerobes. Samples dominated by  and  had significantly higher microbiome diversity, while no CF pathogen was associated with reduced microbial diversity. There was a diverse resistome present in all samples in this study, with 57.8% agreement between shotgun metagenomics and culture-based methods for detection of resistance. Pathogenic sequence types (STs) of , ,  and  were observed to persist in young CF patients, while STs of  were both persistent and shared between patients. This study provides new insight into the temporal changes in strain level composition of the microbiome and the landscape of the resistome in young people with CF. Shotgun metagenomics could provide a very useful one-stop assay for detecting pathogens, emergence of resistance and conversion to persistent colonisation in early CF disease."	48
24599149	metagenomics	PloS one	Microbiota present in cystic fibrosis lungs as revealed by whole genome sequencing.	"Determination of the precise composition and variation of microbiota in cystic fibrosis lungs is crucial since chronic inflammation due to microorganisms leads to lung damage and ultimately, death. However, this constitutes a major technical challenge. Culturing of microorganisms does not provide a complete representation of a microbiota, even when using culturomics (high-throughput culture). So far, only PCR-based metagenomics have been investigated. However, these methods are biased towards certain microbial groups, and suffer from uncertain quantification of the different microbial domains. We have explored whole genome sequencing (WGS) using the Illumina high-throughput technology applied directly to DNA extracted from sputa obtained from two cystic fibrosis patients. To detect all microorganism groups, we used four procedures for DNA extraction, each with a different lysis protocol. We avoided biases due to whole DNA amplification thanks to the high efficiency of current Illumina technology. Phylogenomic classification of the reads by three different methods produced similar results. Our results suggest that WGS provides, in a single analysis, a better qualitative and quantitative assessment of microbiota compositions than cultures and PCRs. WGS identified a high quantity of Haemophilus spp. (patient 1) or Staphylococcus spp. plus Streptococcus spp. (patient 2) together with low amounts of anaerobic (Veillonella, Prevotella, Fusobacterium) and aerobic bacteria (Gemella, Moraxella, Granulicatella). WGS suggested that fungal members represented very low proportions of the microbiota, which were detected by cultures and PCRs because of their selectivity. The future increase of reads' sizes and decrease in cost should ensure the usefulness of WGS for the characterisation of microbiota."	2
33319812	metagenomics	NPJ biofilms and microbiomes	The human respiratory tract microbial community structures in healthy and cystic fibrosis infants.	"The metagenome development of the human respiratory tract was investigated by shotgun metagenome metagenomic sequencing of cough swabs from healthy children and children with cystic fibrosis (CF) between 3 weeks and 6 years of age. A healthy microbial community signature was associated with increased absolute abundances in terms of bacterial-human cell ratios of core and rare species across all age groups, with a higher diversity of rare species and a tightly interconnected species co-occurrence network, in which individual members were found in close proximity to each other and negative correlations were absent. Even without typical CF pathogens, the CF infant co-occurrence network was found to be less stable and prone to fragmentation due to fewer connections between species, a higher number of bridging species and the presence of negative species correlations. Detection of low-abundant DNA of the CF hallmark pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa was neither disease- nor age-associated in our cohort. Healthy and CF children come into contact with P. aeruginosa on a regular basis and from early on."	?
30992350	metagenomics	mBio	Cystic Fibrosis Rapid Response: Translating Multi-omics Data into Clinically Relevant Information.	"Pulmonary exacerbations are the leading cause of death in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. To track microbial dynamics during acute exacerbations, a CF rapid response (CFRR) strategy was developed. The CFRR relies on viromics, metagenomics, metatranscriptomics, and metabolomics data to rapidly monitor active members of the viral and microbial community during acute CF exacerbations. To highlight CFRR, a case study of a CF patient is presented, in which an abrupt decline in lung function characterized a fatal exacerbation. The microbial community in the patient's lungs was closely monitored through the multi-omics strategy, which led to the identification of pathogenic shigatoxigenic  (STEC) expressing Shiga toxin. This case study illustrates the potential for the CFRR to deconstruct complicated disease dynamics and provide clinicians with alternative treatments to improve the outcomes of pulmonary exacerbations and expand the life spans of individuals with CF. Proper management of polymicrobial infections in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) has extended their life span. Information about the composition and dynamics of each patient's microbial community aids in the selection of appropriate treatment of pulmonary exacerbations. We propose the cystic fibrosis rapid response (CFRR) as a fast approach to determine viral and microbial community composition and activity during CF pulmonary exacerbations. The CFRR potential is illustrated with a case study in which a cystic fibrosis fatal exacerbation was characterized by the presence of shigatoxigenic  The incorporation of the CFRR within the CF clinic could increase the life span and quality of life of CF patients."	1
38702223	metagenomics	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Widespread alterations in systemic immune profile are linked to lung function heterogeneity and airway microbes in cystic fibrosis.	"Excessive inflammation and recurrent airway infections characterize people with cystic fibrosis (pwCF), a disease with highly heterogeneous clinical outcomes. How the overall immune response is affected in pwCF, its relationships with the lung microbiome, and the source of clinical heterogeneity have not been fully elucidated. Peripheral blood and sputum samples were collected from 28 pwCF and an age-matched control group. Systemic immune cell subsets and surface markers were quantified using multiparameter flow cytometry. Lung microbiome composition was reconstructed using metatranscriptomics on sputum samples, and microbial taxa were correlated to circulating immune cells and surface markers expression. In pwCF, we found a specific systemic immune profile characterized by widespread hyperactivation and altered frequencies of several subsets. These included substantial changes in B-cell subsets, enrichment of CD35/CD49d neutrophils, and reduction in dendritic cells. Activation markers and checkpoint molecule expression levels differed from healthy subjects. CTLA-4 expression was increased in Tregs and, together with impaired B-cell subsets, correlated with patients' lung function. Concentrations and frequencies of key immune cells and marker expression correlated with the relative abundance of commensal and pathogenic bacteria in the lungs. The CF-specific immune signature, involving hyperactivation, immune dysregulation with alteration in Treg homeostasis, and impaired B-cell function, is a potential source of lung function heterogeneity. The activity of specific microbes contributes to disrupting the balance of the immune response. Our data provide a unique foundation for identifying novel markers and immunomodulatory targets to develop the future of cystic fibrosis treatment and management."	28
32635564	metagenomics	Microorganisms	Untargeted Metagenomic Investigation of the Airway Microbiome of Cystic Fibrosis Patients with Moderate-Severe Lung Disease.	"Although the cystic fibrosis (CF) lung microbiota has been characterized in several studies, little is still known about the temporal changes occurring at the whole microbiome level using untargeted metagenomic analysis. The aim of this study was to investigate the taxonomic and functional temporal dynamics of the lower airway microbiome in a cohort of CF patients. Multiple sputum samples were collected over 15 months from 22 patients with advanced lung disease regularly attending three Italian CF Centers, given a total of 79 samples. DNA extracted from samples was subjected to shotgun metagenomic sequencing allowing both strain-level taxonomic profiling and assessment of the functional metagenomic repertoire. High inter-patient taxonomic heterogeneity was found with short-term compositional changes across clinical status. Each patient exhibited distinct sputum microbial communities at the taxonomic level, and strain-specific colonization of both traditional and atypical CF pathogens. A large core set of genes, including antibiotic resistance genes, were shared across patients despite observed differences in clinical status, and consistently detected in the lung microbiome of all subjects independently from known antibiotic exposure. In conclusion, an overall stability in the microbiome-associated genes was found despite taxonomic fluctuations of the communities."	77
27730195	metagenomics	ERJ open research	The cystic fibrosis lower airways microbial metagenome.	"Chronic airway infections determine most morbidity in people with cystic fibrosis (CF). Herein, we present unbiased quantitative data about the frequency and abundance of DNA viruses, archaea, bacteria, moulds and fungi in CF lower airways. Induced sputa were collected on several occasions from children, adolescents and adults with CF. Deep sputum metagenome sequencing identified, on average, approximately 10 DNA viruses or fungi and several hundred bacterial taxa. The metagenome of a CF patient was typically found to be made up of an individual signature of multiple, lowly abundant species superimposed by few disease-associated pathogens, such as  and , as major components. The host-associated signatures ranged from inconspicuous polymicrobial communities in healthy subjects to low-complexity microbiomes dominated by the typical CF pathogens in patients with advanced lung disease. The DNA virus community in CF lungs mainly consisted of phages and occasionally of human pathogens, such as adeno- and herpesviruses. The  and  populations were composed of one major and numerous minor clone types. The rare clones constitute a low copy genetic resource that could rapidly expand as a response to habitat alterations, such as antimicrobial chemotherapy or invasion of novel microbes."	?
33820995	metagenomics	Nature medicine	Integrative microbiomics in bronchiectasis exacerbations.	"Bronchiectasis, a progressive chronic airway disease, is characterized by microbial colonization and infection. We present an approach to the multi-biome that integrates bacterial, viral and fungal communities in bronchiectasis through weighted similarity network fusion ( https://integrative-microbiomics.ntu.edu.sg ). Patients at greatest risk of exacerbation have less complex microbial co-occurrence networks, reduced diversity and a higher degree of antagonistic interactions in their airway microbiome. Furthermore, longitudinal interactome dynamics reveals microbial antagonism during exacerbation, which resolves following treatment in an otherwise stable multi-biome. Assessment of the Pseudomonas interactome shows that interaction networks, rather than abundance alone, are associated with exacerbation risk, and that incorporation of microbial interaction data improves clinical prediction models. Shotgun metagenomic sequencing of an independent cohort validated the multi-biome interactions detected in targeted analysis and confirmed the association with exacerbation. Integrative microbiomics captures microbial interactions to determine exacerbation risk, which cannot be appreciated by the study of a single microbial group. Antibiotic strategies probably target the interaction networks rather than individual microbes, providing a fresh approach to the understanding of respiratory infection."	?
36892308	metagenomics	Microbiology spectrum	The Cystic Fibrosis Upper and Lower Airway Metagenome.	"The microbial metagenome in cystic fibrosis (CF) airways was investigated by whole-genome shotgun sequencing of total DNA isolated from nasal lavage samples, oropharyngeal swabs, and induced sputum samples collected from 65 individuals with CF aged 7 to 50 years. Each patient harbored a personalized microbial metagenome unique in microbial load and composition, the exception being monocultures of the most common CF pathogens Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa from patients with advanced lung disease. The sampling of the upper airways by nasal lavage uncovered the fungus Malassezia restricta and the bacterium Staphylococcus epidermidis as prominent species. Healthy and CF donors harbored qualitatively and quantitatively different spectra of commensal bacteria in their sputa, even in the absence of any typical CF pathogen. If P. aeruginosa, S. aureus, or Stenotrophomonas maltophilia belonged to the trio of the most abundant species in the CF sputum metagenome, common inhabitants of the respiratory tract of healthy subjects, i.e., Eubacterium sulci, Fusobacterium periodonticum, and Neisseria subflava, were present only in low numbers or not detectable. Random forest analysis identified the numerical ecological parameters of the bacterial community, such as Shannon and Simpson diversity, as the key parameters that globally distinguish sputum samples from CF and healthy donors.  Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most common life-limiting monogenetic disease in European populations and is caused by mutations in the  gene. Chronic airway infections with opportunistic pathogens are the major morbidity that determines prognosis and quality of life in most people with CF. We examined the composition of the microbial communities of the oral cavity and upper and lower airways in CF patients across all age groups. From early on, the spectrum of commensals is different in health and CF. Later on, when the common CF pathogens take up residence in the lungs, we observed differential modes of depletion of the commensal microbiota in the presence of S. aureus, P. aeruginosa, S. maltophilia, or combinations thereof. It remains to be seen whether the implementation of lifelong CFTR (cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator) modulation will change the temporal evolution of the CF airway metagenome."	65
38271608	metagenomics	American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine	"Airway ""Resistotypes"" and Clinical Outcomes in Bronchiectasis."	"Chronic infection and inflammation shapes the airway microbiome in bronchiectasis. Utilizing whole-genome shotgun metagenomics to analyze the airway resistome provides insight into interplay between microbes, resistance genes, and clinical outcomes.  To apply whole-genome shotgun metagenomics to the airway microbiome in bronchiectasis to highlight a diverse pool of antimicrobial resistance genes: the ""resistome,"" the clinical significance of which remains unclear.  Individuals with bronchiectasis were prospectively recruited into cross-sectional and longitudinal cohorts ( = 280), including the international multicenter cross-sectional Cohort of Asian and Matched European Bronchiectasis 2 (CAMEB 2) study ( = 251) and two independent cohorts, one describing patients experiencing acute exacerbation and a further cohort of patients undergoing  eradication treatment. Sputum was subjected to metagenomic sequencing, and the bronchiectasis resistome was evaluated in association with clinical outcomes and underlying host microbiomes.  The bronchiectasis resistome features a unique resistance gene profile and increased counts of aminoglycoside, bicyclomycin, phenicol, triclosan, and multidrug resistance genes. Longitudinally, it exhibits within-patient stability over time and during exacerbations despite between-patient heterogeneity. Proportional differences in baseline resistome profiles, including increased macrolide and multidrug resistance genes, associate with shorter intervals to the next exacerbation, whereas distinct resistome archetypes associate with frequent exacerbations, poorer lung function, geographic origin, and the host microbiome. Unsupervised analysis of resistome profiles identified two clinically relevant ""resistotypes,"" RT1 and RT2, the latter characterized by poor clinical outcomes, increased multidrug resistance, and  Successful targeted eradication in -colonized individuals mediated reversion from RT2 to RT1, a more clinically favorable resistome profile demonstrating reduced resistance gene diversity.  The bronchiectasis resistome associates with clinical outcomes, geographic origin, and the underlying host microbiome. Bronchiectasis resistotypes link to clinical disease and are modifiable through targeted antimicrobial therapy."	?
32580896	metagenomics	The Journal of heart and lung transplantation : the official publication of the International Society for Heart Transplantation	Pediatric lung transplantation: Dynamics of the microbiome and bronchiolitis obliterans in cystic fibrosis.	"Compositional changes in the microbiome are associated with the development of bronchiolitis obliterans (BO) after lung transplantation (LTx) in adults with cystic fibrosis (CF). The association between the lower airway bacterial community and BO after LTx in children with CF remains largely unexplored and is possibly influenced by frequent antibiotic therapy. The objectives of this study were to examine the relationship between bacterial community dynamics and the development of BO and analyze antibiotic resistance trends in children after LTx for CF. For 3 years from the time of transplant, 12 LTx recipients were followed longitudinally, with 5 subjects developing BO during the study period. A total of 82 longitudinal bronchoalveolar lavage samples were collected during standard of care bronchoscopies. Metagenomic shotgun sequencing was performed on the extracted microbial DNA from bronchoalveolar lavage specimens. Taxonomic profiling was constructed using WEVOTE pipeline. The longitudinal association between development of BO and temporal changes in bacterial diversity and abundance were evaluated with MetaLonDA. The analysis of antibiotic resistance genes was performed with the ARGs-OAP v2.0 pipeline. All recipients demonstrated a Proteobacteria-predominant lower airways community. Temporal reduction in bacterial diversity was significantly associated with the development of BO and associated with neutrophilia and antibiotic therapy. Conversely, an increasing abundance of the phylum Actinobacteria and the orders Neisseriales and Pseudonocardiales in the lower airways was significantly associated with resilience to BO. A more diverse bacterial community was related to a higher expression of multidrug resistance genes and increased proteobacterial abundance. Decreased diversity within bacterial communities may suggest a contribution to pediatric lung allograft rejection in CF."	82
33262957	metagenomics	Frontiers in cellular and infection microbiology	The Lung Microbiome of Three Young Brazilian Patients With Cystic Fibrosis Colonized by Fungi.	"Microbial communities infiltrate the respiratory tract of cystic fibrosis patients, where chronic colonization and infection lead to clinical decline. This report aims to provide an overview of the diversity of bacterial and fungal species from the airway secretion of three young CF patients with severe pulmonary disease. The bacterial and fungal microbiomes were investigated by culture isolation, metataxonomics, and metagenomics shotgun. Virulence factors and antibiotic resistance genes were also explored.  was isolated from cultures and identified in high incidence from patient sputum samples.  sp.,  sp., , and  were isolated sporadically. Metataxonomics and metagenomics detected fungal reads (, , and  sp.) in one sputum sample. The main pathogenic bacteria identified were , ,  complex, and . The canonical core CF microbiome is composed of species from the genera , and . Thus, the airways of the three young CF patients presented dominant bacterial genera and interindividual variability in microbial community composition and diversity. Additionally, a wide diversity of virulence factors and antibiotic resistance genes were identified in the CF lung microbiomes, which may be linked to the clinical condition of the CF patients. Understanding the microbial community is crucial to improve therapy because it may have the opposite effect, restructuring the pathogenic microbiota. Future studies focusing on the influence of fungi on bacterial diversity and microbial interactions in CF microbiomes will be welcome to fulfill this huge gap of fungal influence on CF physiopathology."	3
36681756	metagenomics	Scientific reports	Therapeutic beta-lactam dosages and broad-spectrum antibiotics are associated with reductions in microbial richness and diversity in persons with cystic fibrosis.	"Persons with cystic fibrosis (PwCF) suffer from pulmonary exacerbations (PEx) related in part to lung infection. While higher microbial diversity is associated with higher lung function, the data on the impact of short-term antibiotics on changes in microbial diversity is conflicting. Further, Prevotella secretes beta-lactamases, which may influence recovery of lung function. We hypothesize that sub-therapeutic and broad spectrum antibiotic exposure leads to decreasing microbial diversity. Our secondary aim was to evaluate the concerted association of beta-lactam pharmacokinetics (PK), antibiotic spectrum, microbial diversity, and antibiotic resistance on lung function recovery using a pathway analysis. This was a retrospective observational study of persons with CF treated with IV antibiotics for PEx between 2016 and 2020 at Children's National Hospital; respiratory samples and clinical information were collected at hospital admission for PEx (E), end of antibiotic treatment (T), and follow-up (F). Metagenomic sequencing was performed; PathoScope 2.0 and AmrPlusPlus were used for taxonomic assignment of sequences to bacteria and antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs). M/W Pharm was used for PK modeling. Comparison of categorical and continuous variables and pathway analysis were performed in STATA. Twenty-two PwCF experienced 43 PEx. The study cohort had a mean age of 14.6 years. Only 12/43 beta-lactam courses had therapeutic PK, and 18/43 were broad spectrum. A larger decrease in richness between E and T was seen in the therapeutic PK group (sufficient - 20.1 vs. insufficient - 1.59, p = 0.025) and those receiving broad spectrum antibiotics (broad - 14.5 vs. narrow - 2.8, p = 0.030). We did not detect differences in the increase in percent predicted forced expiratory volume in one second (ppFEV1) at end of treatment compared to PEx based on beta-lactam PK (sufficient 13.6% vs. insufficient 15.1%) or antibiotic spectrum (broad 11.5% vs. narrow 16.6%). While both therapeutic beta-lactam PK and broad-spectrum antibiotics decreased richness between PEx and the end of treatment, we did not detect longstanding changes in alpha diversity or an association with superior recovery of lung function compared with subtherapeutic PK and narrow spectrum antimicrobials."	22
32411616	metagenomics and 16S	Frontiers in cellular and infection microbiology	Longitudinal Associations of the Cystic Fibrosis Airway Microbiome and Volatile Metabolites: A Case Study.	"The identification of 16S rDNA biomarkers from respiratory samples to describe the continuum of clinical disease states within persons having cystic fibrosis (CF) has remained elusive. We sought to combine 16S, metagenomics, and metabolomics data to describe multiple transitions between clinical disease states in 14 samples collected over a 12-month period in a single person with CF. We hypothesized that each clinical disease state would have a unique combination of bacterial genera and volatile metabolites as a potential signature that could be utilized as a biomarker of clinical disease state. Taxonomy identified by 16S sequencing corroborated clinical culture results, with the majority of the 109 PCR amplicons belonging to the bacteria grown in clinical cultures ( and ). While alpha diversity measures fluctuated across disease states, no significant trends were present. Principle coordinates analysis showed that treatment samples trended toward a different community composition than baseline and exacerbation samples. This was driven by the phylum Bacteroidetes (less abundant in treatment, log fold difference -3.29,  = 0.015) and the genus  (more abundant in treatment, log fold difference 6.26,  = 0.003). Across all sputum samples, 466 distinct volatile metabolites were identified with total intensity varying across clinical disease state. Baseline and exacerbation samples were rather uniform in chemical composition and similar to one another, while treatment samples were highly variable and differed from the other two disease states. When utilizing a combination of the microbiome and metabolome data, we observed associations between samples dominated  and  and higher relative abundances of alcohols, while samples dominated by  correlated with a metabolomics shift toward more oxidized volatiles. However, the microbiome and metabolome data were not tightly correlated; examining both the metagenomics and metabolomics allows for more context to examine changes across clinical disease states. In our study, combining the sputum microbiome and metabolome data revealed stability in the sputum composition through the first exacerbation and treatment episode, and into the second exacerbation. However, the second treatment ushered in a prolonged period of instability, which after three additional exacerbations and treatments culminated in a new lung microbiome and metabolome."	14
31959969	metagenomics and 16S	Nature microbiology	Culture-enriched metagenomic sequencing enables in-depth profiling of the cystic fibrosis lung microbiota.	"Amplicon sequencing (for example, of the 16S rRNA gene) identifies the presence and relative abundance of microbial community members. However, metagenomic sequencing is needed to identify the genetic content and functional potential of a community. Metagenomics is challenging in samples dominated by host DNA, such as those from the skin, tissue and respiratory tract. Here, we combine advances in amplicon and metagenomic sequencing with culture-enriched molecular profiling to study the human microbiota. Using the cystic fibrosis lung as an example, we cultured an average of 82.13% of the operational taxonomic units representing 99.3% of the relative abundance identified in direct sequencing of sputum samples; importantly, culture enrichment identified 63.3% more operational taxonomic units than direct sequencing. We developed the PLate Coverage Algorithm (PLCA) to determine a representative subset of culture plates on which to conduct culture-enriched metagenomics, resulting in the recovery of greater taxonomic diversity-including of low-abundance taxa-with better metagenome-assembled genomes, longer contigs and better functional annotations when compared to culture-independent methods. The PLCA is also applied as a proof of principle to a previously published gut microbiota dataset. Culture-enriched molecular profiling can be used to better understand the role of the human microbiota in health and disease."	?
28649398	metagenomics and 16S	NPJ biofilms and microbiomes	Ecological networking of cystic fibrosis lung infections.	"In the context of a polymicrobial infection, treating a specific pathogen poses challenges because of unknown consequences on other members of the community. The presence of ecological interactions between microbes can change their physiology and response to treatment. For example, in the cystic fibrosis lung polymicrobial infection, antimicrobial susceptibility testing on clinical isolates is often not predictive of antibiotic efficacy. Novel approaches are needed to identify the interrelationships within the microbial community to better predict treatment outcomes. Here we used an ecological networking approach on the cystic fibrosis lung microbiome characterized using 16S rRNA gene sequencing and metagenomics. This analysis showed that the community is separated into three interaction groups: Gram-positive anaerobes,  and . The  and  groups both anti-correlate with the anaerobic group, indicating a functional antagonism. When patients are clinically stable, these major groupings were also stable, however, during exacerbation, these communities fragment. Co-occurrence networking of functional modules annotated from metagenomics data supports that the underlying taxonomic structure is driven by differences in the core metabolism of the groups. Topological analysis of the functional network identified the non-mevalonate pathway of isoprenoid biosynthesis as a keystone for the microbial community, which can be targeted with the antibiotic fosmidomycin. This study uses ecological theory to identify novel treatment approaches against a polymicrobial disease with more predictable outcomes."	?
36288294	metagenomics and 16S	American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine	Microbial Dysregulation of the Gut-Lung Axis in Bronchiectasis.	"Emerging data support the existence of a microbial ""gut-lung"" axis that remains unexplored in bronchiectasis.  Prospective and concurrent sampling of gut (stool) and lung (sputum) was performed in a cohort of  = 57 individuals with bronchiectasis and subjected to bacteriome (16S rRNA) and mycobiome (18S Internal Transcribed Spacer) sequencing (total, 228 microbiomes). Shotgun metagenomics was performed in a subset ( = 15; 30 microbiomes). Data from gut and lung compartments were integrated by weighted similarity network fusion, clustered, and subjected to co-occurrence analysis to evaluate gut-lung networks. Murine experiments were undertaken to validate specific driven gut-lung interactions.  Microbial communities in stable bronchiectasis demonstrate a significant gut-lung interaction. Multibiome integration followed by unsupervised clustering reveals two patient clusters, differing by gut-lung interactions and with contrasting clinical phenotypes. A high gut-lung interaction cluster, characterized by lung , gut , and gut , is associated with increased exacerbations and greater radiological and overall bronchiectasis severity, whereas the low gut-lung interaction cluster demonstrates an overrepresentation of lung commensals, including , , and  with gut . The lung gut  relationship, observed in the high gut-lung interaction bronchiectasis cluster, was validated in a murine model of lung  infection. This interaction was abrogated after antibiotic (imipenem) pretreatment in mice confirming the relevance and therapeutic potential of targeting the gut microbiome to influence the gut-lung axis. Metagenomics in a subset of individuals with bronchiectasis corroborated our findings from targeted analyses.  A dysregulated gut-lung axis, driven by lung , associates with poorer clinical outcomes in bronchiectasis."	30
38158284	sputum 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Longitudinal changes in the cystic fibrosis airway microbiota with time and treatment.	"Whether there is any benefit in integrating culture-independent molecular analysis of the lower airway microbiota of people with cystic fibrosis into clinical care is unclear. This study determined the longitudinal trajectory of the microbiota and if there were microbiota characteristics that corresponded with response to treatment or predicted a future pulmonary exacerbation. At least one sputum sample was collected from 149 participants enrolled in this prospective longitudinal multi-centre study and total bacterial density and microbiota community measurements were determined and compared with clinical parameters. In 114 participants with paired samples when clinically stable, ∼8 months apart, the microbiota remained conserved between timepoints, regardless of whether participants received acute intravenous antibiotic treatment or not. In 62 participants, who presented with an acute exacerbation, a decrease in community richness correlated best with patient response to antibiotic treatment. Analysis of baseline samples from 30 participants who exacerbated within 4 months of their stable sample being collected and 72 participants who remained stable throughout the study showed that community characteristics such as lower richness at baseline may be predictive of an exacerbation in addition to several clinical parameters. However, lasso regression analysis indicated that only lung function (p = 0.014) was associated with a future exacerbation. The airway microbiota remains stable over periods <1 year with modest shifts related to treatment apparent which might provide some additional insights to patient-level measurements."	
38849369	sputum 16S	Nature communications	Microbial community organization designates distinct pulmonary exacerbation types and predicts treatment outcome in cystic fibrosis.	"Polymicrobial infection of the airways is a hallmark of obstructive lung diseases such as cystic fibrosis (CF), non-CF bronchiectasis, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Pulmonary exacerbations (PEx) in these conditions are associated with accelerated lung function decline and higher mortality rates. Understanding PEx ecology is challenged by high inter-patient variability in airway microbial community profiles. We analyze bacterial communities in 880 CF sputum samples collected during an observational prospective cohort study and develop microbiome descriptors to model community reorganization prior to and during 18 PEx. We identify two microbial dysbiosis regimes with opposing ecology and dynamics. Pathogen-governed PEx show hierarchical community reorganization and reduced diversity, whereas anaerobic bloom PEx display stochasticity and increased diversity. A simulation of antimicrobial treatment predicts better efficacy for hierarchically organized communities. This link between PEx, microbiome organization, and treatment success advances the development of personalized clinical management in CF and, potentially, other obstructive lung diseases."	
21151003	sputum 16S	The ISME journal	Partitioning core and satellite taxa from within cystic fibrosis lung bacterial communities.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) patients suffer from chronic bacterial lung infections that lead to death in the majority of cases. The need to maintain lung function in these patients means that characterising these infections is vital. Increasingly, culture-independent analyses are expanding the number of bacterial species associated with CF respiratory samples; however, the potential significance of these species is not known. Here, we applied ecological statistical tools to such culture-independent data, in a novel manner, to partition taxa within the metacommunity into core and satellite species. Sputa and clinical data were obtained from 14 clinically stable adult CF patients. Fourteen rRNA gene libraries were constructed with 35 genera and 82 taxa, identified in 2139 bacterial clones. Shannon-Wiener and taxa-richness analyses confirmed no undersampling of bacterial diversity. By decomposing the distribution using the ratio of variance to the mean taxon abundance, we partitioned objectively the species abundance distribution into core and satellite species. The satellite group comprised 67 bacterial taxa from 33 genera and the core group, 15 taxa from 7 genera (including Pseudomonas (1 taxon), Streptococcus (2), Neisseria (2), Catonella (1), Porphyromonas (1), Prevotella (5) and Veillonella (3)], the last four being anaerobes). The core group was dominated by Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Other recognised CF pathogens were rare. Mantel and partial Mantel tests assessed which clinical factors influenced the composition observed. CF transmembrane conductance regulator genotype and antibiotic treatment correlated with all core taxa. Lung function correlated with richness. The clinical significance of these core and satellite species findings in the CF lung is discussed. GenBank accession numbers: FM995625–FM997761"	14
37222404	sputum 16S	Pediatric pulmonology	The upper airway microbiome in Hispanic children with cystic fibrosis.	"Hispanic people with cystic fibrosis (CF) have decreased life expectancy and earlier acquisition of Pseudomonas aeruginosa compared to non-Hispanic white individuals with CF. Racial and ethnic differences in the airway microbiome of CF may contribute to known health disparity, but have not been studied. The objective was to describe differences in the upper airway microbial community in Hispanic and non-Hispanic white children with CF. This prospective, observational cohort study of 59 Hispanic and non-Hispanic white children with CF, ages 2-10 years old, was performed at Texas Children's Hospital (TCH) from February 2019 to January 2020. Oropharyngeal swabs were collected from the cohort during clinic visit. Swab samples underwent sequencing (16S V4 rRNA), diversity analysis, and taxonomic profiling. Key demographic and clinical data were collected from the electronic medical record and the CF Foundation Patient Registry (CFFPR). Statistical analysis compared sequencing, demographic, and clinical data. We found no significant difference in Shannon diversity or relative abundance of bacterial phyla between Hispanic and non-Hispanic children with CF. However, a low abundant taxa- ""uncultured bacterium"" belonging to the order Saccharimonadales was significantly higher in Hispanic children (mean relative abundance = 0.13%) compared to the non-Hispanic children (0.03%). Hispanic children had increased incidence of P. aeruginosa (p = 0.045) compared to non-Hispanic children. We did not find a significant difference in the airway microbial diversity between Hispanic and non-Hispanic white children with CF. However, we found a greater relative abundance of Saccharimonadales and higher incidence of P. aeruginosa in Hispanic children with CF."	59
38523273	sputum 16S	Microbiome	Ecological patterns and processes of temporal turnover within lung infection microbiota.	"Chronic infection and consequent airway inflammation are the leading causes of morbidity and early mortality for people living with cystic fibrosis (CF). However, lower airway infections across a range of chronic respiratory diseases, including in CF, do not follow classical 'one microbe, one disease' concepts of infection pathogenesis. Instead, they are comprised of diverse and temporally dynamic lung infection microbiota. Consequently, temporal dynamics need to be considered when attempting to associate lung microbiota with changes in disease status. Set within an island biogeography framework, we aimed to determine the ecological patterns and processes of temporal turnover within the lung microbiota of 30 paediatric and adult CF patients prospectively sampled over a 3-year period. Moreover, we aimed to ascertain the contributions of constituent chronic and intermittent colonizers on turnover within the wider microbiota. The lung microbiota within individual patients was partitioned into constituent chronic and intermittent colonizing groups using the Leeds criteria and visualised with persistence-abundance relationships. This revealed bacteria chronically infecting a patient were both persistent and common through time, whereas intermittently infecting taxa were infrequent and rare; respectively representing the resident and transient portions of the wider microbiota. It also indicated that the extent of chronic colonization was far greater than could be appreciated with microbiological culture alone. Using species-time relationships to measure temporal turnover and Vellend's rationalized ecological processes demonstrated turnover in the resident chronic infecting groups was conserved and underpinned principally by the deterministic process of homogenizing dispersal. Conversely, intermittent colonizing groups, representing newly arrived immigrants and transient species, drove turnover in the wider microbiota and were predominately underpinned by the stochastic process of drift. For adult patients, homogenizing dispersal and drift were found to be significantly associated with lung function. Where a greater frequency of homogenizing dispersal was observed with worsening lung function and conversely drift increased with better lung function. Our work provides a novel ecological framework for understanding the temporal dynamics of polymicrobial infection in CF that has translational potential to guide and improve therapeutic targeting of lung microbiota in CF and across a range of chronic airway diseases. Video Abstract."	30
28282386	sputum 16S	PloS one	Strong incidence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa on bacterial rrs and ITS genetic structures of cystic fibrosis sputa.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) lungs harbor a complex community of interacting microbes, including pathogens like Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Meta-taxogenomic analysis based on V5-V6 rrs PCR products of 52 P. aeruginosa-positive (Pp) and 52 P. aeruginosa-negative (Pn) pooled DNA extracts from CF sputa suggested positive associations between P. aeruginosa and Stenotrophomonas and Prevotella, but negative ones with Haemophilus, Neisseria and Burkholderia. Internal Transcribed Spacer analyses (RISA) from individual DNA extracts identified three significant genetic structures within the CF cohorts, and indicated an impact of P. aeruginosa. RISA clusters Ip and IIIp contained CF sputa with a P. aeruginosa prevalence above 93%, and of 24.2% in cluster IIp. Clusters Ip and IIIp showed lower RISA genetic diversity and richness than IIp. Highly similar cluster IIp RISA profiles were obtained from two patients harboring isolates of a same P. aeruginosa clone, suggesting convergent evolution in the structure of their microbiota. CF patients of cluster IIp had received significantly less antibiotics than patients of clusters Ip and IIIp but harbored the most resistant P. aeruginosa strains. Patients of cluster IIIp were older than those of Ip. The effects of P. aeruginosa on the RISA structures could not be fully dissociated from the above two confounding factors but several trends in these datasets support the conclusion of a strong incidence of P. aeruginosa on the genetic structure of CF lung microbiota."	104
32238195	sputum 16S	Microbiome	Lung function and microbiota diversity in cystic fibrosis.	"Chronic infection and concomitant airway inflammation is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality for people living with cystic fibrosis (CF). Although chronic infection in CF is undeniably polymicrobial, involving a lung microbiota, infection surveillance and control approaches remain underpinned by classical aerobic culture-based microbiology. How to use microbiomics to direct clinical management of CF airway infections remains a crucial challenge. A pivotal step towards leveraging microbiome approaches in CF clinical care is to understand the ecology of the CF lung microbiome and identify ecological patterns of CF microbiota across a wide spectrum of lung disease. Assessing sputum samples from 299 patients attending 13 CF centres in Europe and the USA, we determined whether the emerging relationship of decreasing microbiota diversity with worsening lung function could be considered a generalised pattern of CF lung microbiota and explored its potential as an informative indicator of lung disease state in CF. We tested and found decreasing microbiota diversity with a reduction in lung function to be a significant ecological pattern. Moreover, the loss of diversity was accompanied by an increase in microbiota dominance. Subsequently, we stratified patients into lung disease categories of increasing disease severity to further investigate relationships between microbiota characteristics and lung function, and the factors contributing to microbiota variance. Core taxa group composition became highly conserved within the severe disease category, while the rarer satellite taxa underpinned the high variability observed in the microbiota diversity. Further, the lung microbiota of individual patient were increasingly dominated by recognised CF pathogens as lung function decreased. Conversely, other bacteria, especially obligate anaerobes, increasingly dominated in those with better lung function. Ordination analyses revealed lung function and antibiotics to be main explanators of compositional variance in the microbiota and the core and satellite taxa. Biogeography was found to influence acquisition of the rarer satellite taxa. Our findings demonstrate that microbiota diversity and dominance, as well as the identity of the dominant bacterial species, in combination with measures of lung function, can be used as informative indicators of disease state in CF. Video Abstract."	299
25878338	sputum 16S	Journal of clinical microbiology	Rapid Detection of Emerging Pathogens and Loss of Microbial Diversity Associated with Severe Lung Disease in Cystic Fibrosis.	"Respiratory infection in cystic fibrosis (CF) is polymicrobial, but standard sputum microbiology does not account for the lung microbiome or detect changes in microbial diversity associated with disease. As a clinically applicable CF microbiome surveillance scheme, total sputum nucleic acids isolated by a standard high-throughput robotic method for accredited viral diagnosis were profiled for bacterial diversity using ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (RISA) PCR. Conventional culture and RISA were performed on 200 paired sputum samples from 93 CF adults; pyrosequencing of the 16S rRNA gene was applied to 59 patients to systematically determine bacterial diversity. Compared to the microbiology data, RISA profiles clustered into two groups: the emerging nonfermenting Gram-negative organisms (eNFGN) and Pseudomonas groups. Patients who were culture positive for Burkholderia, Achromobacter, Stenotrophomonas, and Ralstonia clustered within the eNFGN group. Pseudomonas group RISA profiles were associated with Pseudomonas aeruginosa culture-positive patients. Sequence analysis confirmed the abundance of eNFGN genera and Pseudomonas within these respective groups. Low bacterial diversity was associated with severe lung disease (P < 0.001) and the presence of Burkholderia (P < 0.001). An absence of Streptococcus (P < 0.05) occurred in individuals with lung function in the lowest quartile. In summary, nucleic acids isolated from CF sputum can serve as a single template for both molecular virology and bacteriology, with a RISA PCR rapidly detecting the presence of dominant eNFGN pathogens or P. aeruginosa missed by culture (11% of cases). We provide guidance for how this straightforward CF microbiota profiling scheme may be adopted by clinical laboratories."	59
23049765	sputum 16S	PloS one	"The adult cystic fibrosis airway microbiota is stable over time and infection type, and highly resilient to antibiotic treatment of exacerbations."	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is characterized by defective mucociliary clearance and chronic airway infection by a complex microbiota. Infection, persistent inflammation and periodic episodes of acute pulmonary exacerbation contribute to an irreversible decline in CF lung function. While the factors leading to acute exacerbations are poorly understood, antibiotic treatment can temporarily resolve pulmonary symptoms and partially restore lung function. Previous studies indicated that exacerbations may be associated with changes in microbial densities and the acquisition of new microbial species. Given the complexity of the CF microbiota, we applied massively parallel pyrosequencing to identify changes in airway microbial community structure in 23 adult CF patients during acute pulmonary exacerbation, after antibiotic treatment and during periods of stable disease. Over 350,000 sequences were generated, representing nearly 170 distinct microbial taxa. Approximately 60% of sequences obtained were from the recognized CF pathogens Pseudomonas and Burkholderia, which were detected in largely non-overlapping patient subsets. In contrast, other taxa including Prevotella, Streptococcus, Rothia and Veillonella were abundant in nearly all patient samples. Although antibiotic treatment was associated with a small decrease in species richness, there was minimal change in overall microbial community structure. Furthermore, microbial community composition was highly similar in patients during an exacerbation and when clinically stable, suggesting that exacerbations may represent intrapulmonary spread of infection rather than a change in microbial community composition. Mouthwash samples, obtained from a subset of patients, showed a nearly identical distribution of taxa as expectorated sputum, indicating that aspiration may contribute to colonization of the lower airways. Finally, we observed a strong correlation between low species richness and poor lung function. Taken together, these results indicate that the adult CF lung microbiome is largely stable through periods of exacerbation and antibiotic treatment and that short-term compositional changes in the airway microbiota do not account for CF pulmonary exacerbations."	23
35368453	sputum 16S	Frontiers in cellular and infection microbiology	Microbial Community Composition in Explanted Cystic Fibrosis and Control Donor Lungs.	"To date, investigations of the microbiota in the lungs of people with Cystic Fibrosis (PWCF) have primarily focused on microbial community composition in luminal mucus, with fewer studies observing the microbiota in tissue samples from explanted lung tissue. Here, we analysed both tissue and airway luminal mucus samples extracted from whole explanted lungs of PWCF and unused donor lungs. We determined if the lung microbiota in end-stage CF varied within and between patients, was spatially heterogeneous and related to localized structural damage. Microbial community composition was determined by Illumina MiSeq sequencing and related to the CF-Computed Tomography (CT) score and features of end-stage lung disease on micro-CT. Ninety-eight CF tissue (n=11 patients), 20 CF luminal mucus (n=8 patients) and 33 donor tissue (n=4 patients) samples were analysed. Additionally, we compared 20 paired CF tissue and luminal mucus samples that enabled a direct ""geographical"" comparison of the microbiota in these two niches. Significant differences in microbial communities were apparent between the 3 groups. However, overlap between the three groups, particularly between CF and donor tissue and CF tissue and CF luminal mucus was also observed. Microbial diversity was lower in CF luminal mucus compared to CF tissue, with dominance higher in luminal mucus. For both CF and donor tissue, intra- and inter-patient variability in ecological parameters was observed. No relationships were observed between ecological parameters and CF-CT score, or features of end-stage lung disease. The end-stage CF lung is characterised by a low diversity microbiota, differing within and between individuals. No clear relationship was observed between regional microbiota variation and structural lung damage."	98
38261629	sputum 16S	American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine	Loss of Airway Phylogenetic Diversity Is Associated with Clinical and Pathobiological Markers of Disease Development in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease.	"The airway microbiome has the potential to shape chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) pathogenesis, but its relationship to outcomes in milder disease is unestablished.  To identify sputum microbiome characteristics associated with markers of COPD in participants of the Subpopulations and Intermediate Outcome Measures of COPD Study (SPIROMICS).  Sputum DNA from 877 participants was analyzed using 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequencing. Relationships between baseline airway microbiota composition and clinical, radiographic, and mucoinflammatory markers, including longitudinal lung function trajectory, were examined.  Participant data represented predominantly milder disease (Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease stage 0-2 obstruction in 732 of 877 participants). Phylogenetic diversity (i.e., range of different species within a sample) correlated positively with baseline lung function, decreased with higher Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease stage, and correlated negatively with symptom burden, radiographic markers of airway disease, and total mucin concentrations ( < 0.001). In covariate-adjusted regression models, organisms robustly associated with better lung function included , , and  species. Conversely, lower lung function, greater symptoms, and radiographic measures of small airway disease were associated with enrichment in members of , , , and other genera. Baseline sputum microbiota features were also associated with lung function trajectory during SPIROMICS follow-up (stable/improved, decline, or rapid decline groups). The stable/improved group (slope of FEV regression ⩾66th percentile) had greater bacterial diversity at baseline associated with enrichment in , , and  species. In contrast, the rapid decline group (FEV slope ⩽33rd percentile) had significantly lower baseline diversity associated with enrichment in  species.  In SPIROMICS, baseline airway microbiota features demonstrate divergent associations with better or worse COPD-related outcomes."	877
35853495	sputum 16S	Journal of microbiological methods	Reducing human DNA bias in cystic fibrosis airway specimens for microbiome analysis.	"Next generation sequencing (NGS) has transformed our understanding of airway microbiology, however there are methodology limitations that require consideration. The presence of high concentrations of human DNA in clinical specimens can significantly impact sequencing of the microbiome, especially in low biomass samples. Here we compared three different methods (0.025% saponin, NEBNext Microbiome DNA enrichment kit, QIAamp DNA microbiome kit) for the reduction of human DNA from six CF sputum samples and determined the impact on the microbiome detected using 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Human DNA in undepleted CF sputum accounted for 94.3% of the total DNA. Saponin, the NEBNext kit and the QIAamp kit reduced human DNA levels by an average of 38.7%, 61.8% and 94.8%, respectively. None of the depletion methods reduced total bacterial DNA concentrations. QIAamp depletion did not influence taxa richness or alpha diversity however alterations to the core genera were noted following depletion. While all methods reduced human DNA in the CF sputum samples, the QIAamp DNA microbiome kit reduced Human DNA levels significantly while leaving bacterial DNA levels unchanged. Human DNA depletion in low biomass, human DNA-dense CF sputum samples is vital for improving bacterial resolution in the CF airway microbiome."	6
37837613	sputum 16S	International forum of allergy & rhinology	Elexacaftor-tezacaftor-ivacaftor decreases pseudomonas abundance in the sinonasal microbiome in cystic fibrosis.	"Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) is common in individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF) and is marked by chronic inflammation and episodes of infection that negatively impact quality of life. Several studies have shown that elexacaftor-tezacaftor-ivacaftor (ETI) improves symptoms and examination findings in CF-CRS. The current study determines the effect of ETI on the sinonasal microbiota in CF. Sinonasal samples were collected under endoscopic visualization before and after starting ETI. Samples were subjected to 16S amplicon sequencing and sequences were processed with the QIIME2 pipeline with subsequent analysis using the vegan R-package. Twenty-nine individual baseline samples and 23 sample pairs pre-/post-ETI were available. At baseline, the cohort had samples dominated by Staphylococcus, and alpha diversity was lower than that of a published reference set of individuals without sinonasal disease. Individuals with prior sinus surgery had lower alpha diversity as measured by Shannon Index, Observed Richness, and Faith's phylogenetic diversity Index. Beta diversity differed between individuals with and without allergic rhinitis, with higher Staphylococcus abundance in those with allergic rhinitis. No change in alpha or beta diversity was seen after a median of 9 months on ETI. With ETI, the Pseudomonas genus and the genus containing Burkholderia decreased in samples containing these taxa at baseline. Pseudomonas abundance decreased with treatment as measured by qPCR. Core sinonasal microbiome members Staphylococcus, Corynebacterium, and Streptococcus were unchanged, while Moraxella increased with ETI. Treatment with ETI leads to a reduction in Pseudomonas abundance within the sinonasal microbiome of individuals with Pseudomonas at baseline."	23
37312128	sputum 16S	Microbiome	Detection of bile acids in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid defines the inflammatory and microbial landscape of the lower airways in infants with cystic fibrosis.	"Cystic Fibrosis (CF) is a genetic condition characterized by neutrophilic inflammation and recurrent infection of the airways. How these processes are initiated and perpetuated in CF remains largely unknown. We have demonstrated a link between the intestinal microbiota-related metabolites bile acids (BA) and inflammation in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) from children with stable CF lung disease. To establish if BA indicate early pathological processes in CF lung disease, we combined targeted mass spectrometry and amplicon sequencing-based microbial characterization of 121 BALF specimens collected from 12-month old infants with CF enrolled in the COMBAT-CF study, a multicentre randomized placebo-controlled clinical trial comparing azithromycin versus placebo. We evaluated whether detection of BA in BALF is associated with the establishment of the inflammatory and microbial landscape of early CF lung disease, and whether azithromycin, a motilin agonist that has been demonstrated to reduce aspiration of gastric contents, alters the odds of detecting BA in BALF. We also explored how different prophylactic antibiotics regimens impact the early life BALF microbiota. Detection of BA in BALF was strongly associated with biomarkers of airway inflammation, more exacerbation episodes during the first year of life, increased use of oral antibiotics with prolonged treatment periods, a higher degree of structural lung damage, and distinct microbial profiles. Treatment with azithromycin, a motilin agonist, which has been reported to reduce aspiration of gastric contents, did not reduce the odds of detecting BA in BALF. Culture and molecular methods showed that azithromycin does not alter bacterial load or diversity in BALF. Conversely, penicillin-type prophylaxis reduced the odds of detecting BAs in BALF, which was associated with elevated levels of circulating biomarkers of cholestasis. We also observed that environmental factors such as penicillin-type prophylaxis or BAs detection were linked to distinct early microbial communities of the CF airways, which were associated with different inflammatory landscapes but not with structural lung damage. Detection of BA in BALF portend early pathological events in CF lung disease. Benefits early in life associated with azithromycin are not linked to its antimicrobial properties. Video Abstract."	121
36803565	sputum 16S	BMC microbiology	Resilience and stability of the CF- intestinal and respiratory microbiome during nutritional and exercise intervention.	"Impaired respiratory and intestinal microbiome composition is linked to cystic fibrosis lung disease severity. In people with cystic fibrosis (pwCF), regular exercise is recommended to delay disease progression and preserve a stable lung function. An optimal nutritional status is vital for best clinical outcomes. Our study investigated whether regular and monitored exercise and nutritional support promotes CF microbiome health. A personalized nutrition and exercise program promoted nutritional intake and physical fitness in 18 pwCF for 12 months. Throughout the study, patients performed strength and endurance training monitored by a sports scientist via an internet platform. After three months, food supplementation with Lactobacillus rhamnosus LGG was introduced. Nutritional status and physical fitness were assessed before the study started, after three and nine months. Sputum and stool were collected, and microbial composition was analyzed by 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Sputum and stool microbiome composition remained stable and highly specific to each patient during the study period. Disease-associated pathogens dominated sputum composition. Lung disease severity and recent antibiotic treatment had the highest impact on taxonomic composition in stool and sputum microbiome. Strikingly, the long-term antibiotic treatment burden had only a minor influence. Despite the exercise and nutritional intervention, respiratory and intestinal microbiomes proved to be resilient. Dominant pathogens drove the composition and functionality of the microbiome. Further studies are required to understand which therapy could destabilize the dominant disease-associated microbial composition of pwCF."	18
26555248	sputum 16S	The ISME journal	Respiratory microbiota resistance and resilience to pulmonary exacerbation and subsequent antimicrobial intervention.	"Pulmonary symptoms in cystic fibrosis (CF) begin in early life with chronic lung infections and concomitant airway inflammation leading to progressive loss of lung function. Gradual pulmonary function decline is interspersed with periods of acute worsening of respiratory symptoms known as CF pulmonary exacerbations (CFPEs). Cumulatively, CFPEs are associated with more rapid disease progression. In this study multiple sputum samples were collected from adult CF patients over the course of CFPEs to better understand how changes in microbiota are associated with CFPE onset and management. Data were divided into five clinical periods: pre-CFPE baseline, CFPE, antibiotic treatment, recovery, and post-CFPE baseline. Samples were treated with propidium monoazide prior to DNA extraction, to remove the impact of bacterial cell death artefacts following antibiotic treatment, and then characterised by 16S rRNA gene-targeted high-throughput sequencing. Partitioning CF microbiota into core and rare groups revealed compositional resistance to CFPE and resilience to antibiotics interventions. Mixed effects modelling of core microbiota members revealed no significant negative impact on the relative abundance of Pseudomonas aeruginosa across the exacerbation cycle. Our findings have implications for current CFPE management strategies, supporting reassessment of existing antimicrobial treatment regimens, as antimicrobial resistance by pathogens and other members of the microbiota may be significant contributing factors."	?
34269323	sputum 16S	The Pediatric infectious disease journal	Impact of Anaerobic Antibacterial Spectrum on Cystic Fibrosis Airway Microbiome Diversity and Pulmonary Function.	"The role of anaerobic organisms in the cystic fibrosis (CF) lung microbiome is unclear. Our objectives were to investigate the effect of broad (BS) versus narrow (NS) spectrum antianaerobic antibiotic activity on lung microbiome diversity and pulmonary function, hypothesizing that BS antibiotics would cause greater change in microbiome diversity without a significant improvement in lung function. Pulmonary function tests and respiratory samples were collected prospectively in persons with CF before and after treatment for pulmonary exacerbations. Treatment antibiotics were classified as BS or NS. Gene sequencing data from 16S rRNA were used for diversity analysis and bacterial genera classification. We compared the effects of BS versus NS on diversity indices, lung function and anaerobic/aerobic ratios. Statistical significance was determined by multilevel mixed-effects generalized linear models and mixed-effects regression models. Twenty patients, 6-20 years of age, experienced 30 exacerbations. BS therapy had a greater effect on beta diversity than NS therapy when comparing time points before antibiotics to after and at recovery. After antibiotics, the NS therapy group had a greater return toward baseline forced expiratory volume at 1 second and forced expiratory flow 25%-75% values than the BS group. The ratio of anaerobic/aerobic organisms showed a predominance of anaerobes in the NS group with aerobes dominating in the BS group. BS antianaerobic therapy had a greater and possibly longer lasting effect on the lung microbiome of persons with CF, without achieving the recovery of pulmonary function seen with the NS therapy. Specific antibiotic therapies may affect disease progression by changing the airway microbiome."	20
37841851	sputum 16S	Research square	Longitudinal Microbial and Molecular Dynamics in the Cystic Fibrosis Lung after Elexacaftor-Tezacaftor-Ivacaftor therapy.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a genetic disorder causing poor mucociliary clearance in the airways and subsequent respiratory infection. The recently approved triple therapy Elexacaftor-Tezacaftor-Ivacaftor (ETI) has significantly improved the lung function and decreased airway infection of persons with CF (pwCF). This improvement has been shown to occur rapidly, within the first few weeks of treatment. The effects of longer term ETI therapy on lung infection dynamics, however, remains mostly unknown. Here, we applied 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing, untargeted metabolomics, and neutral models to high-resolution, longitudinally collected sputum samples from pwCF on ETI therapy (162 samples, 7 patients) and compared to similarly collected data set of CF subjects not taking ETI (630 samples, 9 patients). Because ETI reduces sputum production, samples were collected in freezers provided in the subject's homes at least 3 months after first taking ETI, with those on ETI collecting a sample approximately weekly. The lung function (%ppFEV1) of those in our longitudinal cohort significantly improved after ETI (6.91, SD = 7.74), indicating our study cohort was responsive to ETI. The daily variation of alpha- and beta-diversity of both the microbiome and metabolome was higher for those on ETI, reflecting a more dynamic microbial community and chemical environment during treatment. Four of the seven subjects on ETI were persistently infected with  or  in their sputum throughout the sampling period. The microbiome and metabolome dynamics on ETI were personalized, where some subjects had a progressive change with time on therapy, whereas others had no association with time on treatment. To further classify the augmented variance of the CF microbiome under therapy, we fit the microbiome data to a Hubbell neutral dynamics model in a patient-stratified manner and found that the subjects on ETI had better fit to a neutral model. This study shows that the longitudinal microbiology and chemistry in airway secretions from subjects on ETI has become more dynamic and neutral, and that after the initial improvement in lung function, many are still persistently infected with CF pathogens."	162
23348972	sputum 16S	American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine	Lung microbiota and bacterial abundance in patients with bronchiectasis when clinically stable and during exacerbation.	"Characterization of bacterial populations in infectious respiratory diseases will provide improved understanding of the relationship between the lung microbiota, disease pathogenesis, and treatment outcomes. To comprehensively define lung microbiota composition during stable disease and exacerbation in patients with bronchiectasis. Sputum was collected from patients when clinically stable and before and after completion of antibiotic treatment of exacerbations. Bacterial abundance and community composition were analyzed using anaerobic culture and 16S rDNA pyrosequencing. In clinically stable patients, aerobic and anaerobic bacteria were detected in 40 of 40 (100%) and 33 of 40 (83%) sputum samples, respectively. The dominant organisms cultured were Pseudomonas aeruginosa (n = 10 patients), Haemophilus influenzae (n = 12), Prevotella (n = 18), and Veillonella (n = 13). Pyrosequencing generated more than 150,000 sequences, representing 113 distinct microbial taxa; the majority of observed community richness resulted from taxa present in low abundance with similar patterns of phyla distribution in clinically stable patients and patients at the onset of exacerbation. After treatment of exacerbation, there was no change in total (P = 0.925), aerobic (P = 0.917), or anaerobic (P = 0.683) load and only a limited shift in community composition. Agreement for detection of bacteria by culture and pyrosequencing was good for aerobic bacteria such as P. aeruginosa (κ = 0.84) but poorer for other genera including anaerobes. Lack of agreement was largely due to bacteria being detected by pyrosequencing but not by culture. A complex microbiota is present in the lungs of patients with bronchiectasis and remains stable through treatment of exacerbations, suggesting that changes in microbiota composition do not account for exacerbations."	40
35773410	sputum 16S	Scientific reports	Exposure to bile and gastric juice can impact the aerodigestive microbiome in people with cystic fibrosis.	"Studies of microbiota reveal inter-relationships between the microbiomes of the gut and lungs. This relationship may influence the progression of lung disease, particularly in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF), who often experience extraoesophageal reflux (EOR). Despite identifying this relationship, it is not well characterised. Our hypothesis is that the gastric and lung microbiomes in CF are related, with the potential for aerodigestive pathophysiology. We evaluated gastric and sputum bacterial communities by culture and 16S rRNA gene sequencing in 13 CF patients. Impacts of varying levels of bile acids, pepsin and pH on patient isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa (Pa) were evaluated. Clonally related strains of Pa and NTM were identified in gastric and sputum samples from patients with symptoms of EOR. Bacterial diversity was more pronounced in sputa compared to gastric juice. Gastric and lung bile and pepsin levels were associated with Pa biofilm formation. Analysis of the aerodigestive microbiomes of CF patients with negative sputa indicates that the gut can be a reservoir of Pa and NTM. This combined with the CF patient's symptoms of reflux and potential aspiration, highlights the possibility of communication between microorganisms of the gut and the lungs. This phenomenon merits further research."	13
28541746	sputum 16S	Annals of the American Thoracic Society	The Evolving Cystic Fibrosis Microbiome: A Comparative Cohort Study Spanning 16 Years.	"The cystic fibrosis (CF) airways are infected with a diverse polymicrobial community. Understanding how changes in the CF microbiome have occurred over time, similar to the observed changes in the prevalence of cultured pathogens, is key in understanding the microbiome's role in disease. Drawing from a prospectively collected and maintained sputum biobank, we identified 45 patients with sputum samples collected between the ages of 18 and 21 years in three successive cohorts of adults transitioning to our CF clinic: A (1997-2000), B (2004-2007), and C (2010-2013). Patient demographics, clinical status, and medications were collected from detailed chart review. Microbial communities were assessed by Ilumina MiSeq sequencing of the variable 3 (V3) region of the 16S rDNA. The three cohorts were similar with respect to baseline demographics. There was a trend toward improved health and use of disease-modifying therapies in each successive cohort. Shannon diversity increased in the most recent cohort, suggesting an increase in the diversity of organisms between cohorts. Furthermore, the proportion of samples with Pseudomonas-dominated communities decreased over time, whereas Streptococcus increased. Although β-diversity was associated with transition cohort, the greatest predictor of diversity remained lung function. Furthermore, core microbiome constituents were preserved across cohorts. Modest changes in the composition and structure of the microbiome of three successive cohorts of young adults with CF were observed, occurring in parallel with successive improvements in clinical status. Importantly, however, the core microbiome constituents were preserved across cohorts."	45
38084404	sputum 16S	American journal of physiology. Lung cellular and molecular physiology	The presence of cystic fibrosis-related diabetes modifies the sputum microbiome in cystic fibrosis disease.	"Cystic fibrosis-related diabetes (CFRD) affects 40%-50% of adults with CF and is associated with a decline in respiratory health. The microbial flora of the lung is known to change with the development of CF disease, but how CFRD affects the microbiome has not been described. We analyzed the microbiome in sputa from 14 people with CF, 14 with CFRD, and two who were classed as pre-CFRD by extracting DNA and amplifying the variable V3-V4 region of the microbial  ribosomal RNA gene by PCR. Sequences were analyzed and sources were identified to genus level. We found that the α-diversity of the microbiome using Shannon's diversity index was increased in CFRD compared with CF. Bray Curtis dissimilarity analysis showed that there was separation of the microbiomes in CF and CFRD sputa. The most abundant phyla identified in the sputum samples were  and ,  and , and the ratio of  was reduced in CFRD compared with CF. , , , and  were more abundant in CFRD compared with CF, whereas  was less abundant. The relative abundance of these genera did not correlate with age; some correlated with a decline in FEV/FVC but all correlated with hemoglobin A1C (HbA1c) indicating that development of CFRD mediates further changes to the respiratory microbiome in CF. Cystic fibrosis-related diabetes (CFRD) is associated with a decline in respiratory health. We show for the first time that there was a change in the sputum microbiome of people with CFRD compared with CF that correlated with markers of raised blood glucose."	14
33431308	sputum 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	"Relationship between airway dysbiosis, inflammation and lung function in adults with cystic fibrosis."	"Airway dysbiosis has been associated with lung disease severity in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). However, the relationship between dysbiosis, airway inflammation and lung function impairement remains poorly understood. The aim of this study was therefore to determine how the structure of the sputum microbiota, airway inflammation markers and spirometry are related in patients with CF. Sputum samples were collected from 106 CF patients between 12 and 72 years. These were analyzed by 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing. Moreover, levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-8, IL-6 and TNF-α) and Neutrophil elastase (NE) were determined. The relationship between the microbiota, inflammation markers and forced expiratory volume in one second percent predicted (FEV% predicted) was evaluated by multi-parameter analysis. The microbiota α-diversity correlated inverse with inflammation markers IL-1β, IL-8, TNF-α, NE and positively with FEV% predicted. Patients could be divided into 7 clusters based on their microbiota structure. The most diverse cluster was defined by oropharyngeal-like flora (OF) while the others were characterized by the dominance of a single pathogen. Patients with the diverse OF microbiota cluster had lower sputum inflammatory markers and higher FEV% predicted compared to patients with a pathogen-dominated microbiota including Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Our results suggest that the diversity of the airway microbiota is an important biomarker of the severity of airway inflammation linking dysbiosis to lung function decline in patients with CF."	106
33330902	sputum 16S	The Journal of infectious diseases	Microbiome Data Enhances Predictive Models of Lung Function in People With Cystic Fibrosis.	"Microbiome sequencing has brought increasing attention to the polymicrobial context of chronic infections. However, clinical microbiology continues to focus on canonical human pathogens, which may overlook informative, but nonpathogenic, biomarkers. We address this disconnect in lung infections in people with cystic fibrosis (CF). We collected health information (lung function, age, and body mass index [BMI]) and sputum samples from a cohort of 77 children and adults with CF. Samples were collected during a period of clinical stability and 16S rDNA sequenced for airway microbiome compositions. We use ElasticNet regularization to train linear models predicting lung function and extract the most informative features. Models trained on whole-microbiome quantitation outperformed models trained on pathogen quantitation alone, with or without the inclusion of patient metadata. Our most accurate models retained key pathogens as negative predictors (Pseudomonas, Achromobacter) along with established correlates of CF disease state (age, BMI, CF-related diabetes). In addition, our models selected nonpathogen taxa (Fusobacterium, Rothia) as positive predictors of lung health. These results support a reconsideration of clinical microbiology pipelines to ensure the provision of informative data to guide clinical practice."	77
32576651	sputum 16S	mSystems	High-Resolution Longitudinal Dynamics of the Cystic Fibrosis Sputum Microbiome and Metabolome through Antibiotic Therapy.	"Microbial diversity in the cystic fibrosis (CF) lung decreases over decades as pathogenic bacteria such as  take over. The dynamics of the CF microbiome and metabolome over shorter time frames, however, remain poorly studied. Here, we analyze paired microbiome and metabolome data from 594 sputum samples collected over 401 days from six adult CF subjects (subject mean = 179 days) through periods of clinical stability and 11 CF pulmonary exacerbations (CFPE). While microbiome profiles were personalized (permutational multivariate analysis of variance [PERMANOVA]   = 0.79,  < 0.001), we observed significant intraindividual temporal variation that was highest during clinical stability (linear mixed-effects [LME] model,  = 0.002). This included periods where the microbiomes of different subjects became highly similar (UniFrac distance, <0.05). There was a linear increase in the microbiome alpha-diversity and in the log ratio of anaerobes to pathogens with time ( = 14 days) during the development of a CFPE (LME  = 0.0045 and  = 0.029, respectively). Collectively, comparing samples across disease states showed there was a reduction of these two measures during antibiotic treatment (LME  = 0.0096 and  = 0.014, respectively), but the stability data and CFPE data were not significantly different from each other. Metabolome alpha-diversity was higher during CFPE than during stability (LME  = 0.0085), but no consistent metabolite signatures of CFPE across subjects were identified. Virulence-associated metabolites from  were temporally dynamic but were not associated with any disease state. One subject died during the collection period, enabling a detailed look at changes in the 194 days prior to death. This subject had over 90%  in the microbiome at the beginning of sampling, and that level gradually increased to over 99% prior to death. This study revealed that the CF microbiome and metabolome of some subjects are dynamic through time. Future work is needed to understand what drives these temporal dynamics and if reduction of anaerobes correlate to clinical response to CFPE therapy. Subjects with cystic fibrosis battle polymicrobial lung infections throughout their lifetime. Although antibiotic therapy is a principal treatment for CF lung disease, we have little understanding of how antibiotics affect the CF lung microbiome and metabolome and how much the community changes on daily timescales. By analyzing 594 longitudinal CF sputum samples from six adult subjects, we show that the sputum microbiome and metabolome are dynamic. Significant changes occur during times of stability and also through pulmonary exacerbations (CFPEs). Microbiome alpha-diversity increased as a CFPE developed and then decreased during treatment in a manner corresponding to the reduction in the log ratio of anaerobic bacteria to classic pathogens. Levels of metabolites from the pathogen  were also highly variable through time and were negatively associated with anaerobes. The microbial dynamics observed in this study may have a significant impact on the outcome of antibiotic therapy for CFPEs and overall subject health."	594
32966701	sputum 16S	The clinical respiratory journal	Airway microbiota is associated with the severity of non-CF bronchiectasis.	"Airway microbiota are associated with several chronic respiratory diseases. However, limited studies examined microbiota in non-cystic fibrosis (non-CF) bronchiectasis, especially its relationship with severity and immunology. We characterized the microbiota of patients with different severities of bronchiectasis and examined the correlation between microbiota and the immunological indices. The microbiota of 63 sputum samples from 40 patients with bronchiectasis were analyzed by 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Blood tests and related immunological indices were detected. According to the baseline data of patients with bronchiectasis, we found that more severe bronchiectasis was accompanied by lower prealbumin levels. The 16S rRNA sequencing analyses demonstrated that Pseudomonas-dominated microbiota produced lower levels of interleukin-4 (IL-4) and transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) compared to other-dominated microbiota. The airway microbiota of patients with mild bronchiectasis clustered apart from those of patients with severe bronchiectasis, which correlated with IL-4 and other clinical indices. There are differences in the airway microbiota between patients with mild and severe bronchiectasis. The airway microbiota was related to some clinical indices that represent effects on the immune system."	63
35449374	sputum 16S	Scientific reports	Alterations of mucosa-attached microbiome and epithelial cell numbers in the cystic fibrosis small intestine with implications for intestinal disease.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is caused by mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene. Defective CFTR leads to accumulation of dehydrated viscous mucus within the small intestine, luminal acidification and altered intestinal motility, resulting in blockage. These changes promote gut microbial dysbiosis, adversely influencing the normal proliferation and differentiation of intestinal epithelial cells. Using Illumina 16S rRNA gene sequencing and immunohistochemistry, we assessed changes in mucosa-attached microbiome and epithelial cell profile in the small intestine of CF mice and a CF patient compared to wild-type mice and non-CF humans. We found increased abundance of pro-inflammatory Escherichia and depletion of beneficial secondary bile-acid producing bacteria in the ileal mucosa-attached microbiome of CFTR-null mice. The ileal mucosa in a CF patient was dominated by a non-aeruginosa Pseudomonas species and lacked numerous beneficial anti-inflammatory and short-chain fatty acid-producing bacteria. In the ileum of both CF mice and a CF patient, the number of absorptive enterocytes, Paneth and glucagon-like peptide 1 and 2 secreting L-type enteroendocrine cells were decreased, whereas stem and goblet cell numbers were increased. These changes in mucosa-attached microbiome and epithelial cell profile suggest that microbiota-host interactions may contribute to intestinal CF disease development with implications for therapy."	1
30580994	sputum 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Differences in the lower airway microbiota of infants with and without cystic fibrosis.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) lung disease commences in infancy, and understanding the role of the microbiota in disease pathogenesis is critical. This study examined and compared the lower airway microbiota of infants with and without CF and its relationship to airway inflammation in the first months of life. Infants newly-diagnosed with CF were recruited into a single-centre study in Melbourne, Australia from 1992 to 2001. Bronchoalveolar lavage was performed at study entry. Healthy infants undergoing bronchoscopy to investigate chronic stridor acted as controls. Quantitative microbiological culture was performed and inflammatory markers were measured contemporaneously. 16S ribosomal RNA gene analysis was performed on stored samples. Thirteen bronchoalveolar samples from infants with CF and nine from control infants, collected at median ages of 1.8-months (25th-75th percentile 1.5 to 3.1-months) and 5-months (25th-75th percentile 2.9 to 8.2-months) respectively, provided 16S rRNA gene data. Bacterial biomass was positively associated with inflammation. Alpha diversity was reduced in infants with CF and between-group compositional differences were apparent. These differences were driven by increased Staphylococcus and decreased Fusobacterium and were most apparent in symptomatic infants with CF. In CF lung disease, differences in lower airway microbial community composition and structure are established by age 6-months."	13
36094193	sputum 16S	Microbiology spectrum	Low Diversity and Instability of the Sinus Microbiota over Time in Adults with Cystic Fibrosis.	"Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) is a common, yet underreported and understudied manifestation of upper respiratory disease in people with cystic fibrosis (CF). Recently developed standard of care guidelines for the management of CF CRS suggest treatment of upper airway disease may ameliorate lower airway disease. We sought to determine whether changes to sinus microbial community diversity and specific taxa known to cause CF lung disease are associated with increased respiratory disease and inflammation. We performed 16S rRNA gene sequencing, supplemented with cytokine analyses, microscopy, and bacterial culturing, on samples from the sinuses of 27 adults with CF CRS. At each study visit, participants underwent endoscopic paranasal sinus sampling and clinical evaluation. We identified key drivers of microbial community composition and evaluated relationships between diversity and taxa with disease outcomes and inflammation. Sinus community diversity was low, and the composition was unstable, with many participants exhibiting alternating dominance between Pseudomonas aeruginosa and staphylococci over time. Despite a tendency for dominance by these two taxa, communities were highly individualized and shifted composition during exacerbation of sinus disease symptoms. Exacerbations were also associated with communities dominated by Staphylococcus spp. Reduced microbial community diversity was linked to worse sinus disease and the inflammatory status of the sinuses (including increased interleukin-1β [IL-1β]). Increased IL-1β was also linked to worse sinus endoscopic appearance, and other cytokines were linked to microbial community dynamics. Our work revealed previously unknown instability of sinus microbial communities and a link between inflammation, lack of microbial community diversity, and worse sinus disease.  Together with prior sinus microbiota studies of adults with CF chronic rhinosinusitis, our study underscores similarities between sinus and lower respiratory tract microbial community structures in CF. We show how community structure tracks with inflammation and several disease measures. This work strongly suggests that clinical management of CRS could be leveraged to improve overall respiratory health in CF. Our work implicates elevated IL-1β in reduced microbiota diversity and worse sinus disease in CF CRS, suggesting applications for existing therapies targeting IL-1β. Finally, the widespread use of highly effective cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) modulator therapy has led to less frequent availability of spontaneous expectorated sputum for microbiological surveillance of lung infections. A better understanding of CF sinus microbiology could provide a much-needed alternative site for monitoring respiratory infection status by important CF pathogens."	27
34824018	sputum 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	A restructuring of microbiome niche space is associated with Elexacaftor-Tezacaftor-Ivacaftor therapy in the cystic fibrosis lung.	"Elexacaftor-Tezacaftor-Ivacaftor (ETI) therapy is showing promising efficacy for treatment of cystic fibrosis (CF) and is becoming more widely available since recent FDA approval. However, little is known about how these drugs will affect lung infections, which are the leading cause of morbidity and mortality among people with CF (pwCF). We analyzed sputum microbiome and metabolome data from pwCF (n=24) before and after ETI therapy using 16S rRNA gene sequencing and untargeted metabolomics. The sputum microbiome diversity, particularly its evenness, was increased (p=0.036) and the microbiome profiles were different between individuals before and after therapy (PERMANOVA F=1.92, p=0.044). Despite these changes, the microbiomes remained more similar within an individual than across the sampled population. No specific microbial taxa differed in relative abundance before and after therapy, but the collective log-ratio of classic CF pathogens to anaerobes significantly decreased (p=0.013). The sputum metabolome also showed changes associated with ETI (PERMANOVA F=4.22, p=0.002) and was characterized by greater variation across subjects while on treatment. Changes in the metabolome were driven by a decrease in peptides, amino acids, and metabolites from the kynurenine pathway, which were associated with a decrease in CF pathogens. Metabolism of the three small molecules that make up ETI was extensive, including previously uncharacterized structural modifications. ETI therapy is associated with a changing microbiome and metabolome in airway mucus. This effect was stronger on sputum biochemistry, which may reflect changing niche space for microbial residency in lung mucus as the drug's effects take hold. This project was funded by a National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease Grant R01AI145925."	24
28356374	sputum 16S	The European respiratory journal	Concordance between upper and lower airway microbiota in infants with cystic fibrosis.	"Nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal samples are commonly used to direct therapy for lower respiratory tract infections in non-expectorating infants with cystic fibrosis (CF).We aimed to investigate the concordance between the bacterial community compositions of 25 sets of nasopharyngeal, oropharyngeal and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) samples from 17 infants with CF aged ∼5 months (n=13) and ∼12 months (n=12) using conventional culturing and 16S-rRNA sequencing.Clustering analyses demonstrated that BAL microbiota profiles were in general characterised by a mixture of oral and nasopharyngeal bacteria, including commensals like , ,  and  spp. and potential pathogens like ,  and  spp. Within each individual, however, the degree of concordance differed between microbiota of both upper respiratory tract niches and the corresponding BAL.The inconsistent intra-individual concordance between microbiota of the upper and lower respiratory niches suggests that the lungs of infants with CF may have their own microbiome that seems seeded by, but is not identical to, the upper respiratory tract microbiome."	25
29445257	sputum 16S	Mediators of inflammation	Comparison of Oropharyngeal Microbiota from Children with Asthma and Cystic Fibrosis.	"A genuine microbiota resides in the lungs which emanates from the colonization by the oropharyngeal microbiota. Changes in the oropharyngeal microbiota might be the source of dysbiosis observed in the lower airways in patients suffering from asthma or cystic fibrosis (CF). To examine this hypothesis, we compared the throat microbiota from healthy children ( = 62) and that from children with asthma ( = 27) and CF ( = 57) aged 6 to 12 years using 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing. Our results show high levels of similarities between healthy controls and children with asthma and CF revealing the existence of a core microbiome represented by , , , , and . However, in CF, the global diversity, the bacterial load, and abundances of 53 OTUs were significantly reduced, whereas abundances of 6 OTUs representing opportunistic pathogens such as , , and  were increased compared to those in healthy controls controls and asthmatics. Our data reveal a core microbiome in the throat of healthy children that persists in asthma and CF indicating shared host regulation favoring growth of commensals. Furthermore, we provide evidence for dysbiosis with a decrease in diversity and biomass associated with the presence of known pathogens consistent with impaired host defense in children with CF."	57
35633718	sputum 16S	Frontiers in microbiology	Changes in Microbiome Dominance Are Associated With Declining Lung Function and Fluctuating Inflammation in People With Cystic Fibrosis.	"Airway inflammation and microbiome dysbiosis are hallmarks of cystic fibrosis () lung disease. However, longitudinal studies are needed to decipher which factors contribute to the long-term evolution of these key features of  We therefore evaluated the relationship between fluctuation in microbiome and inflammatory parameters in a longitudinal study including a short- (1-year) and a long-term (3+ years) period. We collected 118 sputum samples from 26  adult patients and analyzed them by 16S rRNA gene sequencing. We measured the levels of inflammatory cytokines, neutrophil elastase, and anti-proteinases; lung function (FEV1% predicted); and BMI. The longitudinal evolution was analyzed based on (i) the rates of changes; (ii) the intra-patient stability of the variables; and (iii) the dependency of the rates of changes on the baseline values. We observed that the diversity of the microbiome was highly variable over a 1-year period, while the inflammatory markers showed a slower evolution, with significant changes only observed in the 3+ year cohort. Further, the degree of fluctuation of the biomass and the dominance of the microbiome were associated with changes in inflammatory markers, especially IL-1β and IL-8. This longitudinal study demonstrates for the first time that the long-term establishment and periodical variation of the abundance of a dominant pathogen is associated with a more severe increase in inflammation. This result indicates that a single time point or 1-year study might fail to reveal the correlation between microbial evolution and clinical degradation in cystic fibrosis."	118
36628831	sputum 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Airway bacterial community composition in persons with advanced cystic fibrosis lung disease.	"The progression of lung disease in people with cystic fibrosis (pwCF) has been associated with a decrease in the diversity of airway bacterial communities. How often low diversity communities occur in advanced CF lung disease and how they may be associated with clinical outcomes is not clear, however. We sequenced a region of the bacterial 16S ribosomal RNA gene to characterize bacterial communities in sputum from 190 pwCF with advanced lung disease (FEV≤40% predicted), with particular attention to the prevalence and relative abundance of dominant genera. We evaluated relationships between community diversity and clinical outcomes. Although most of the 190 pwCF with advanced lung disease had airway bacterial communities characterized by low diversity with a dominant genus, a considerable minority (40%) did not. The absence of a dominant genus, presence of methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, and greater bacterial richness positively correlated with lung function. Higher relative abundance of the dominant genus and greater antimicrobial use negatively correlated with lung function. PwCF with a low diversity community and dominant genus had reduced lung transplant-free survival compared to those without (median survival of 1.6 vs 2.9 years). A considerable proportion of pwCF with advanced lung disease do not have airway bacterial communities characterized by low diversity and a dominant genus and these individuals had better survival. An understanding of the antecedents of low diversity airway communities- and the impact these may have on lung disease trajectory - may provide avenues for improved management strategies."	190
31536536	sputum 16S	PloS one	Upper versus lower airway microbiome and metagenome in children with cystic fibrosis and their correlation with lung inflammation.	"Airways of children with cystic fibrosis (CF) harbor complex polymicrobial communities which correlates with pulmonary disease progression and use of antibiotics. Throat swabs are widely used in young CF children as a surrogate to detect potentially pathogenic microorganisms in lower airways. However, the relationship between upper and lower airway microbial communities remains poorly understood. This study aims to determine (1) to what extent oropharyngeal microbiome resembles the lung microbiome in CF children and (2) if lung microbiome composition correlates with airway inflammation. Throat swabs and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) were obtained concurrently from 21 CF children and 26 disease controls. Oropharyngeal and lung microbiota were analyzed using 16S rRNA deep sequencing and correlated with neutrophil counts in BAL and antibiotic exposure. Oropharyngeal microbial communities clustered separately from lung communities and had higher microbial diversity (p < 0.001). CF microbiome differed significantly from non-CF controls, with a higher abundance of Proteobacteria in both upper and lower CF airways. Neutrophil count in the BAL correlated negatively with the diversity but not richness of the lung microbiome. In CF children, microbial genes involved in bacterial motility proteins, two-component system, flagella assembly, and secretion system were enriched in both oropharyngeal and lung microbiome, whereas genes associated with synthesis and metabolism of nucleic acids and protein dominated the non-CF controls. This study identified a unique microbial profile with altered microbial diversity and metabolic functions in CF airways which is significantly affected by airway inflammation. These results highlight the limitations of using throat swabs as a surrogate to study lower airway microbiome and metagenome in CF children."	21
30857926	sputum 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	The effects of cycled inhaled aztreonam on the cystic fibrosis (CF) lung microbiome.	"To improve clinical outcomes, cystic fibrosis (CF) patients with chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections are prescribed inhaled anti-pseudomonal antibiotics. Although, a diverse microbial community exists within CF airways, little is known about how the CF microbiota influences patient outcomes. We hypothesized that organisms within the CF microbiota are affected by inhaled-antibiotics and baseline microbiome may be used to predict therapeutic response. Adults with chronic P. aeruginosa infection from four clinics were observed during a single 28-day on/off inhaled-aztreonam cycle. Patients performed serial sputum collection, CF-respiratory infection symptom scores (CRISS), and spirometry. Patients achieving a decrease of ≥2 CRISS by day 28 were categorized as subjective responders (SR). The airway microbiome was defined by Illumina MiSeq analysis of the 16S rRNA gene. Thirty-seven patients (median 37.4 years and FEV 44% predicted) were enrolled. No significant cohort-wide changes in the microbiome were observed between on/off AZLI cycles in either alpha- or beta-diversity metrics. However, at an individual level shifts were apparent. Twenty-one patients (57%) were SR and fourteen patients did not subjectively respond. While alpha-diversity metrics did not associate with response, patients who did not subjectively respond had a higher abundance of Staphylococcus and Streptococcus, and lower abundance of Haemophilus. The CF microbiome is relatively resilient to AZLI perturbations. However, associated changes were observed at the individual patient level. The relative abundance of key ""off-target"" organisms associated with subjective improvements suggesting that the microbiome may be used as a tool to predict patient response - potentially improving outcomes."	37
35477313	sputum 16S	mSphere	Sputum Metabolites Associated with Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Infection in Cystic Fibrosis.	"Nontuberculous mycobacterial (NTM) pulmonary infections in people with cystic fibrosis (CF) are associated with significant morbidity and mortality and are increasing in prevalence. Host risk factors for NTM infection in CF are largely unknown. We hypothesize that the airway microbiota represents a host risk factor for NTM infection. In this study, 69 sputum samples were collected from 59 people with CF; 42 samples from 32 subjects with NTM infection (14 samples collected before incident NTM infection and 28 samples collected following incident NTM infection) were compared to 27 samples from 27 subjects without NTM infection. Sputum samples were analyzed with 16S rRNA gene sequencing and metabolomics. A supervised classification and correlation analysis framework (sparse partial least-squares discriminant analysis [sPLS-DA]) was used to identify correlations between the microbial and metabolomic profiles of the NTM cases compared to the NTM-negative controls. Several metabolites significantly differed in the NTM cases compared to controls, including decreased levels of tryptophan-associated and branched-chain amino acid metabolites, while compounds involved in phospholipid metabolism displayed increased levels. When the metabolome and microbiome data were integrated by sPLS-DA, the models and component ordinations showed separation between the NTM and control samples. While this study could not determine if the observed differences in sputum metabolites between the cohorts reflect metabolic changes that occurred as a result of the NTM infection or metabolic features that contributed to NTM acquisition, it is hypothesis generating for future work to investigate host and bacterial community factors that may contribute to NTM infection risk in CF.  Host risk factors for nontuberculous mycobacterial (NTM) infection in people with cystic fibrosis (CF) are largely unclear. The goal of this study was to help identify potential host and bacterial community risk factors for NTM infection in people with CF, using microbiome and metabolome data from CF sputum samples. The data obtained in this study identified several metabolic profile differences in sputum associated with NTM infection in CF, including 2-methylcitrate/homocitrate and selected ceramides. These findings represent potential risk factors and therapeutic targets for preventing and/or treating NTM infections in people with CF."	69
33139451	sputum 16S	Thorax	Sputum microbiota in adults with CF associates with response to inhaled tobramycin.	"Inhaled tobramycin powder/solution (TIP/S) use has resulted in improved clinical outcomes in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) with chronic . However, TIP/S effect on the CF sputum microbiome has not been explored. We hypothesised that TIP/S has additional 'off-target' effects beyond merely  and that baseline microbiome prior to initiation of therapy is associated with subsequent patient response. We drew sputum samples from a prospectively collected biobank. Patients were included if they had one sputum sample in the 18 months before and after TIP/S. Bacterial 16S rRNA gene profiling was used to characterise the sputum microbiome. Forty-one patients met our inclusion criteria and 151 sputum samples were assessed. At baseline, median age was 30.4 years (IQR 24.2-35.2) and forced expiratory volume in 1 (FEV) second was 57% predicted (IQR 44-74). Nineteen patients were defined a priori as responders having no net decrease in FEV in the year following TIP/S. No significant changes were observed in key microbiome metrics of alpha (within-sample) or beta (between-sample) diversity for samples collected before and after TIP/S. However, significant beta-diversity (Bray-Curtis) differences were noted at baseline between patients based on response status. Notably, responders were observed to have a higher abundance of  in pretherapy baseline samples. Our longitudinal study demonstrates that the sputum microbiome of patients with CF is relatively stable following inhaled tobramycin over many months. Intriguingly, our findings suggest that baseline microbiome may associate with patient response to TIP/S-suggesting the sputum microbiome could be used to personalise therapy."	151
37199622	sputum 16S	Microbiology spectrum	16S rRNA-Based Microbiota Profiling Assists Conventional Culture Analysis of Airway Samples from Pediatric Cystic Fibrosis Patients.	"16S-based sequencing provides broader information on the respiratory microbial community than conventional culturing. However, it (often) lacks species- and strain-level information. To overcome this issue, we used 16S rRNA-based sequencing results from 246 nasopharyngeal samples obtained from 20 infants with cystic fibrosis (CF) and 43 healthy infants, which were all 0 to 6 months old, and compared them to both standard (blind) diagnostic culturing and a 16S-sequencing-informed ""targeted"" reculturing approach. Using routine culturing, we almost uniquely detected Moraxella catarrhalis, Staphylococcus aureus, and Haemophilus influenzae (42%, 38%, and 33% of samples, respectively). Using the targeted reculturing approach, we were able to reculture 47% of the top-5 operational taxonomical units (OTUs) in the sequencing profiles. In total, we identified 60 species from 30 genera with a median of 3 species per sample (range, 1 to 8). We also identified up to 10 species per identified genus. The success of reculturing the top-5 genera present from the sequencing profile depended on the genus. In the case of  being in the top 5, we recultured them in 79% of samples, whereas for Staphylococcus, this value was only 25%. The success of reculturing was also correlated with the relative abundance of those genera in the corresponding sequencing profile. In conclusion, revisiting samples using 16S-based sequencing profiles to guide a targeted culturing approach led to the detection of more potential pathogens per sample than conventional culturing and may therefore be useful in the identification and, consequently, treatment of bacteria considered relevant for the deterioration or exacerbation of disease in patients like those with CF.  Early and effective treatment of pulmonary infections in cystic fibrosis is vital to prevent chronic lung damage. Although microbial diagnostics and treatment decisions are still based on conventional culture methods, research is gradually focusing more on microbiome and metagenomic-based approaches. This study compared the results of both methods and proposed a way to combine the best of both worlds. Many species can relatively easily be recultured based on the 16S-based sequencing profile, and it provides more in-depth information about the microbial composition of a sample than that obtained through routine (blind) diagnostic culturing. Still, well-known pathogens can be missed by both routine diagnostic culture methods as well as by targeted reculture methods, sometimes even when they are highly abundant, which may be a consequence of either sample storage conditions or antibiotic treatment at the time of sampling."	246
32108159	sputum 16S	Scientific reports	Respiratory mycobiome and suggestion of inter-kingdom network during acute pulmonary exacerbation in cystic fibrosis.	"Lung infections play a critical role in cystic fibrosis (CF) pathogenesis. CF respiratory tract is now considered to be a polymicrobial niche and advances in high-throughput sequencing allowed to analyze its microbiota and mycobiota. However, no NGS studies until now have characterized both communities during CF pulmonary exacerbation (CFPE). Thirty-three sputa isolated from patients with and without CFPE were used for metagenomic high-throughput sequencing targeting 16S and ITS2 regions of bacterial and fungal rRNA. We built inter-kingdom network and adapted Phy-Lasso method to highlight correlations in compositional data. The decline in respiratory function was associated with a decrease in bacterial diversity. The inter-kingdom network revealed three main clusters organized around Aspergillus, Candida, and Scedosporium genera. Using Phy-Lasso method, we identified Aspergillus and Malassezia as relevantly associated with CFPE, and Scedosporium plus Pseudomonas with a decline in lung function. We corroborated in vitro the cross-domain interactions between Aspergillus and Streptococcus predicted by the correlation network. For the first time, we included documented mycobiome data into a version of the ecological Climax/Attack model that opens new lines of thoughts about the physiopathology of CF lung disease and future perspectives to improve its therapeutic management."	33
34689185	sputum 16S	The ISME journal	"Association of bacterial community types, functional microbial processes and lung disease in cystic fibrosis airways."	"Bacterial infection and inflammation of the airways are the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in persons with cystic fibrosis (CF). The ecology of the bacterial communities inhabiting CF airways is poorly understood, especially with respect to how community structure, dynamics, and microbial metabolic activity relate to clinical outcomes. In this study, the bacterial communities in 818 sputum samples from 109 persons with CF were analyzed by sequencing bacterial 16S rRNA gene amplicons. We identified eight alternative community types (pulmotypes) by using a Dirichlet multinomial mixture model and studied their temporal dynamics in the cohort. Across patients, the pulmotypes displayed chronological patterns in the transition among each other. Furthermore, significant correlations between pulmotypes and patient clinical status were detected by using multinomial mixed effects models, principal components regression, and statistical testing. Constructing pulmotype-specific metabolic activity profiles, we found that pulmotype microbiota drive distinct community functions including mucus degradation or increased acid production. These results indicate that pulmotypes are the result of ordered, underlying drivers such as predominant metabolism, ecological competition, and niche construction and can form the basis for quantitative, predictive models supporting clinical treatment decisions."	818
27609714	sputum 16S	Journal of microbiological methods	Different next generation sequencing platforms produce different microbial profiles and diversity in cystic fibrosis sputum.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an autosomal recessive disease characterized by recurrent lung infections. Studies of the lung microbiome have shown an association between decreasing diversity and progressive disease. 454 pyrosequencing has frequently been used to study the lung microbiome in CF, but will no longer be supported. We sought to identify the benefits and drawbacks of using two state-of-the-art next generation sequencing (NGS) platforms, MiSeq and PacBio RSII, to characterize the CF lung microbiome. Each has its advantages and limitations. Twelve samples of extracted bacterial DNA were sequenced on both MiSeq and PacBio NGS platforms. DNA was amplified for the V4 region of the 16S rRNA gene and libraries were sequenced on the MiSeq sequencing platform, while the full 16S rRNA gene was sequenced on the PacBio RSII sequencing platform. Raw FASTQ files generated by the MiSeq and PacBio platforms were processed in mothur v1.35.1. There was extreme discordance in alpha-diversity of the CF lung microbiome when using the two platforms. Because of its depth of coverage, sequencing of the 16S rRNA V4 gene region using MiSeq allowed for the observation of many more operational taxonomic units (OTUs) and higher Chao1 and Shannon indices than the PacBio RSII. Interestingly, several patients in our cohort had Escherichia, an unusual pathogen in CF. Also, likely because of its coverage of the complete 16S rRNA gene, only PacBio RSII was able to identify Burkholderia, an important CF pathogen. When comparing microbiome diversity in clinical samples from CF patients using 16S sequences, MiSeq and PacBio NGS platforms may generate different results in microbial community composition and structure. It may be necessary to use different platforms when trying to correctly identify dominant pathogens versus measuring alpha-diversity estimates, and it would be important to use the same platform for comparisons to minimize errors in interpretation."	12
33247928	sputum 16S	Pathogens and disease	Chlamydia pneumoniae and Mycoplasma pneumoniae in children with cystic fibrosis: impact on bacterial respiratory microbiota diversity.	"The contribution of intracellular and fastidious bacteria in Cystic fibrosis (CF) pulmonary exacerbations, and progressive lung function decline remains unknown. This project aimed to explore their impact on bacterial microbiota diversity over time in CF children. Sixty-one children enrolled in the MUCOVIB multicentre prospective cohort provided 746 samples, mostly nasopharyngeal swabs, throat swabs and sputa which were analysed using culture, specific real-time qPCRs and 16S rRNA amplicon metagenomics. Chlamydia pneumoniae (n = 3) and Mycoplasma pneumoniae (n = 1) were prospectively documented in 6.6% of CF children. Microbiota alpha-diversity in children with a documented C. pneumoniae was highly variable, similarly to children infected with Staphylococcus aureus or Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The transition from routine follow-up visits to pulmonary exacerbation (n = 17) yielded variable changes in diversity indexes with some extreme loss of diversity. The high rate of C. pneumoniae detection supports the need for regular screenings in CF patients. A minor impact of C. pneumoniae on the microbial community structure was documented. Although detected in a single patient, M. pneumoniae should also be considered as a possible aetiology of lung infection in CF subjects."	746
34938669	sputum 16S	Frontiers in cellular and infection microbiology	A Volatile and Dynamic Longitudinal Microbiome Is Associated With Less Reduction in Lung Function in Adolescents With Cystic Fibrosis.	"Progressive impairment in lung function caused by chronic polymicrobial airway infection remains the major cause of death in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). Cross-sectional studies suggest an association between lung function decline and specific lung microbiome ecotypes. However, longitudinal studies on the stability of the airway microbiome are missing for adolescents with CF constituting the age group showing the highest rate of decline in lung function. In this study, we analyzed longitudinal lung function data and sputum samples collected over a period of 3 to 5 years from 12 adolescents with CF. The sputum microbiome was analyzed using 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Our results indicate that the individual course of the lung microbiome is associated with longitudinal lung function. In our cohort, patients with a dynamic, diverse microbiome showed a slower decline of lung function measured by FEV predicted, whereas a more stable and less diverse lung microbiome was related to worse outcomes. Specifically, a higher abundance of the phyla Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes was linked to a better clinical outcome, while Proteobacteria were correlated with a decline in FEV predicted. Our study indicates that the stability and diversity of the lung microbiome and the abundance of Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes are associated with the lung function decline and are one of the contributing factors to the disease severity."	12
34548223	sputum 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Comparison of microbial composition of cough swabs and sputum for pathogen detection in patients with cystic fibrosis.	"With the continued advancement of CFTR modulator therapies there is likely to be a burgeoning population of adult cystic fibrosis (CF) patients unable to expectorate sputum. Consequently, the detection and surveillance of pulmonary colonisation, previously reliant on sputum culture, needs re-examining. We hypothesised that cough swabs analysed with culture-independent analysis of the 16S gene could serve as a surrogate for colonisation of the lower airways. Cough swabs and sputum samples were prospectively collected from consecutive adults and children with CF across two sites at regular outpatient appointments. Conventional culture analysis and next generation sequencing were used to compare paired same day samples. Twenty-two adults and 8 paediatric patients provided 75 paired cough swabs and sputum samples. Alpha diversity measures showed increased bacterial richness in sputum, while evenness and Simpson's diveristy index were higher in cough swabs. Within each sampling technique, microbial composition showed greater similarity when considering intra-patient variation. Poor concordance was observed between culture independent cough swabs and culture dependent/independent sputum analysis for specific pathogens, with cough swabs unable to accurately identify commonly associated CF pathogens (AUROCC range: 0.51 to 0.64). Culture independent analysis of cough swabs provides an inaccurate diagnosis of lower respiratory tract colonisation and should not be used as a diagnostic test in patients with CF."	75
34613995	sputum 16S	PloS one	Divergence of bacterial communities in the lower airways of CF patients in early childhood.	"Chronic airway infection and inflammation resulting in progressive, obstructive lung disease is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in cystic fibrosis. Understanding the lower airway microbiota across the ages can provide valuable insight and potential therapeutic targets. To characterize and compare the lower airway microbiota in cystic fibrosis and disease control subjects across the pediatric age spectrum. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid samples from 191 subjects (63 with cystic fibrosis) aged 0 to 21 years were collected along with relevant clinical data. We measured total bacterial load using quantitative polymerase chain reaction and performed 16S rRNA gene sequencing to characterize bacterial communities with species-level sensitivity for select genera. Clinical comparisons were investigated. Cystic fibrosis samples had higher total bacterial load and lower microbial diversity, with a divergence from disease controls around 2-5 years of age, as well as higher neutrophilic inflammation relative to bacterial burden. Cystic fibrosis samples had increased abundance of traditional cystic fibrosis pathogens and decreased abundance of the Streptococcus mitis species group in older subjects. Interestingly, increased diversity in the heterogeneous disease controls was independent of diagnosis and indication. Sequencing was more sensitive than culture, and antibiotic exposure was more common in disease controls, which showed a negative relationship with load and neutrophilic inflammation. Analysis of lower airway samples from people with cystic fibrosis and disease controls across the ages revealed key differences in airway microbiota and inflammation. The divergence in subjects during early childhood may represent a window of opportunity for intervention and additional study."	191
33931358	sputum 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Diversity of cystic fibrosis chronic rhinosinusitis microbiota correlates with different pathogen dominance.	"Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) affects nearly all individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF) and is thought to serve as a reservoir for microbiota that subsequently colonize the lung. To better understand the microbial ecology of CRS, we generated a 16S rRNA gene sequencing profile of sinus mucus from CF-CRS patients. We show that CF-CRS sinuses harbor bacterial diversity not entirely captured by clinical culture. Culture data consistently identified the dominant organism in most patients, though lower abundance bacteria were not always identified. We also demonstrate that bacterial communities dominated by Staphylococcus spp. were significantly more diverse compared to those dominated by Pseudomonas spp. Diversity was not significantly associated with clinical factors or patient age, however, younger subjects yielded a much wider range of bacterial diversity. These data mirror bacterial community dynamics in the lung and provide additional insight into the role of sinus microbiota in chronic airway disease progression."	?
31415187	sputum 16S	Annals of the American Thoracic Society	Measures of Cystic Fibrosis Airway Microbiota during Periods of Clinical Stability.	"Differences in cystic fibrosis (CF) airway microbiota between periods of clinical stability and exacerbation of respiratory symptoms have been investigated in efforts to better understand microbial triggers of CF exacerbations. Prior studies have often relied on a single sample or a limited number of samples to represent airway microbiota. However, the variability in airway microbiota during periods of clinical stability is not well known. To determine the temporal variability of measures of airway microbiota during periods of clinical stability, and to identify factors associated with this variability. Sputum samples ( = 527), obtained daily from six adults with CF during 10 periods of clinical stability, underwent sequencing of the V4 region of the bacterial 16S ribosomal RNA gene. The variability in airway microbiota among samples within each period of clinical stability was calculated as the average of the Bray-Curtis similarity measures of each sample to every other sample within the same period. Outlier samples were defined as samples outside 1.5 times the interquartile range within a baseline period with respect to the average Bray-Curtis similarity. Total bacterial load was measured with droplet digital polymerase chain reaction. The variation in Bray-Curtis similarity and total bacterial load among samples within the same baseline period was greater than the variation observed in technical replicate control samples. Overall, 6% of samples were identified as outliers. Within baseline periods, changes in bacterial community structure occurred coincident with changes in maintenance antibiotics ( < 0.05, analysis of molecular variance). Within subjects, bacterial community structure changed between baseline periods ( < 0.01, analysis of molecular variance). Sample-to-sample similarity within baseline periods was greater with fewer interval days between sampling. During periods of clinical stability, airway bacterial community structure and bacterial load vary among daily sputum samples from adults with CF. This day-to-day variation has bearing on study design and interpretation of results, particularly in analyses that rely on single samples to represent periods of interest (e.g., clinical stability vs. pulmonary exacerbation). These data also emphasize the importance of accounting for maintenance antibiotic use and granularity of sample collection in studies designed to assess the dynamics of CF airway microbiota relative to changes in clinical state."	6
25034564	sputum 16S	The European respiratory journal	Pyrosequencing reveals transient cystic fibrosis lung microbiome changes with intravenous antibiotics.	"Chronic airway infection in adults with cystic fibrosis (CF) is polymicrobial and the impact of intravenous antibiotics on the bacterial community composition is poorly understood. We employed culture-independent molecular techniques to explore the early effects of i.v. antibiotics on the CF airway microbiome. DNA was extracted from sputum samples collected from adult subjects with CF at three time-points (before starting treatment, and at day 3 and day 8-10 of i.v. antibiotics) during treatment of an infective pulmonary exacerbation. Microbial community profiles were derived through analysis of bacterial-derived 16S ribosomal RNA by pyrosequencing and changes over time were compared. 59 sputum samples were collected during 24 pulmonary exacerbations from 23 subjects. Between treatment onset and day 3 there was a significant reduction in the relative abundance of Pseudomonas and increased microbial diversity. By day 8-10, bacterial community composition was similar to pre-treatment. Changes in community composition did not predict improvements in lung function. The relative abundance of Pseudomonas falls rapidly in subjects with CF receiving i.v. antibiotic treatment for a pulmonary exacerbation and is accompanied by an increase in overall microbial diversity. However, this effect is not maintained beyond the first week of treatment."	59
36006942	sputum 16S	PloS one	Lower airway microbiota and decreasing lung function in young Brazilian cystic fibrosis patients with pulmonary Staphylococcus and Pseudomonas infection.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a genetic disease caused by mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator gene that leads to respiratory complications and mortality. Studies have shown shifts in the respiratory microbiota during disease progression in individuals with CF. In addition, CF patients experience short cycles of acute intermittent aggravations of symptoms called pulmonary exacerbations, which may be characterized by a decrease in lung function and weight loss. The resident microbiota become imbalanced, promoting biofilm formation, and reducing the effectiveness of therapy. The aim of this study was to monitor patients aged 8-23 years with CF to evaluate their lower respiratory microbiota using 16S rRNA sequencing. The most predominant pathogens observed in microbiota, Staphylococcus (Staph) and Pseudomonas (Pseud) were correlated with clinical variables, and the in vitro capacity of biofilm formation for these pathogens was tested. A group of 34 patients was followed up for 84 days, and 306 sputum samples were collected and sequenced. Clustering of microbiota by predominant pathogen showed that children with more Staph had reduced forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) and forced vital capacity (FVC) compared to children with Pseud. Furthermore, the patients' clinical condition was consistent with the results of pulmonary function. More patients with pulmonary exacerbation were observed in the Staph group than in the Pseud group, as confirmed by lower body mass index and pulmonary function. Additionally, prediction of bacterial functional profiles identified genes encoding key enzymes involved in virulence pathways in the Pseud group. Importantly, this study is the first Brazilian study to assess the lower respiratory microbiota in a significant group of young CF patients. In this sense, the data collected for this study on the microbiota of children in Brazil with CF provide a valuable contribution to the knowledge in the field."	306
32199729	sputum 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	"Total bacterial load, inflammation, and structural lung disease in paediatric cystic fibrosis."	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is characterised by reduced airway clearance, microbial accumulation, inflammation, and lung function decline. Certain bacterial species may contribute disproportionately to worsening lung disease. However, the relative importance of these microorganisms compared to the absolute abundance of all bacteria is uncertain. We aimed to identify the characteristics of lower airway microbiology that best reflect CF airway inflammation and disease in children. Analysis was performed on bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid from 78 participants of the Australasian CF Bronchoalveolar Lavage (ACFBAL) clinical trial, aged 4.5-5.5 years. Universal bacterial quantitative PCR (qPCR), species-specific qPCR, and 16S rRNA gene sequencing were performed on DNA extracts to determine total bacterial load, species-specific load and taxa relative abundance. Quantification of pre-specified pathogens was performed by culture-based methods. Bacteriological data were related to neutrophil counts, interleukin-8, lung function, and two computed-tomography based measures, CF-CT (as the primary measure) and PRAGMA. Of all bacteriological measures assessed, total bacterial load determined by qPCR correlated most strongly with structural disease (CF-CT total score, r=0.30, P=0.0095). Specifically, total bacterial load correlated with bronchiectasis, airway wall thickening, mucus plugging and parenchymal disease sub-scores. In contrast, culture-based quantification, microbiota-derived measures, and pathogen-specific qPCR-based quantification were weakly associated with total CF-CT. Regression analyses supported correlation findings, with total bacterial load explaining the greatest variance in total CF-CT (R=0.097, P=0.0061). Correlations with PRAGMA score were comparable to CF-CT total score. Within the ACFBAL trial, culture-independent quantification of total bacteria provided the most clinically-informative bacteriological measure in 5-year-old CF patients."	78
29346420	sputum 16S	PLoS pathogens	Initial acquisition and succession of the cystic fibrosis lung microbiome is associated with disease progression in infants and preschool children.	"The cystic fibrosis (CF) lung microbiome has been studied in children and adults; however, little is known about its relationship to early disease progression. To better understand the relationship between the lung microbiome and early respiratory disease, we characterized the lower airways microbiome using bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) samples obtained from clinically stable CF infants and preschoolers who underwent bronchoscopy and chest computed tomography (CT). Cross-sectional samples suggested a progression of the lower airways microbiome with age, beginning with relatively sterile airways in infancy. By age two, bacterial sequences typically associated with the oral cavity dominated lower airways samples in many CF subjects. The presence of an oral-like lower airways microbiome correlated with a significant increase in bacterial density and inflammation. These early changes occurred in many patients, despite the use of antibiotic prophylaxis in our cohort during the first two years of life. The majority of CF subjects older than four harbored a pathogen dominated airway microbiome, which was associated with a further increase in inflammation and the onset of structural lung disease, despite a negligible increase in bacterial density compared to younger patients with an oral-like airway microbiome. Our findings suggest that changes within the CF lower airways microbiome occur during the first years of life and that distinct microbial signatures are associated with the progression of early CF lung disease."	50
31604026	sputum 16S	Annals of the American Thoracic Society	Changes in Airway Microbiome and Inflammation with Ivacaftor Treatment in Patients with Cystic Fibrosis and the G551D Mutation.	"Modulation of the cystic fibrosis (CF) transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) protein improves clinical outcomes in patients with CF and specific CFTR genetic mutations. It remains unclear how improving CFTR function modifies existing airway infection and inflammation. To compare sputum microbiome and markers of inflammation before and after 6 months of ivacaftor treatment. The study included 31 people with CF, ages 10 years and older, with at least one G551D CFTR allele and an forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV) of 40% predicted or greater who were enrolled in the GOAL (G551D Observational) study. Sputum samples were collected either by induction ( = 14) or by spontaneous expectoration ( = 17) before and 6 months after initiation of ivacaftor. Changes in bacterial community indices by sequencing of 16S rRNA amplicons, total and specific bacterial load, and a panel of proteases, antiproteases, and inflammatory cytokines were determined. The cohort that spontaneously expectorated sputum had a lower FEV, a higher proportion with  infection, and higher concentrations of sputum inflammatory markers compared with the cohort that provided sputum by induction. Although the overall cohort experienced significant improvements in FEV and reductions in sweat chloride, no significant changes in bacterial diversity, specific bacterial pathogens, or markers of inflammation were observed in these subjects. Neither total bacterial load nor presence of  changed significantly between paired samples with ivacaftor treatment. Younger patients experienced more shifts in their microbial communities than older patients. In this multicenter cohort, 6 months of ivacaftor treatment were not associated with significant changes in airway microbial communities or measures of inflammation. These data suggest that concomitant antimicrobial and antiinflammatory treatments will still be needed to manage airway disease in patients with CF treated with highly effective CFTR modulator therapy, especially in older patients with more advanced disease."	31
33600745	sputum 16S	Annals of the American Thoracic Society	"Effects of Lumacaftor-Ivacaftor on Lung Clearance Index, Magnetic Resonance Imaging, and Airway Microbiome in Phe508del Homozygous Patients with Cystic Fibrosis."	"Previous studies showed that lumacaftor-ivacaftor therapy results in partial rescue of CFTR (cystic fibrosis [CF] transmembrane conductance regulator) activity and a moderate improvement of spirometry in Phe508del homozygous patients with CF. However, the effects of lumacaftor-ivacaftor on lung clearance index (LCI), lung morphology and perfusion detected by chest magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and effects on the airway microbiome and inflammation remain unknown.  To investigate the effects of lumacaftor-ivacaftor on LCI, lung MRI scores, and airway microbiome and inflammation.  In this prospective observational study we assessed clinical outcomes including spirometry and body mass index, LCI, lung MRI scores, sputum microbiome, and proinflammatory cytokines in 30 Phe508del homozygous patients with CF 12 years and older before and 8-16 weeks after initiation of lumacaftor-ivacaftor therapy.  Lumacaftor-ivacaftor had no effects on forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV% predicted) (1.7%; 95% confidence interval [CI], -1.0% to 4.3%;  = 0.211) but improved LCI (-1.6; 95% CI, -2.6 to -0.5;  < 0.01) and MRI morphology (-1.3; 95% CI, -2.3 to -0.3;  < 0.05) and perfusion score (-1.2; 95% CI, -2.3 to -0.2;  < 0.05) in our study cohort. Furthermore, lumacaftor-ivacaftor decreased the total bacterial load (-1.8; 95% CI, -3.3 to -0.34;  < 0.05) and increased the Shannon diversity of the airway microbiome (0.4; 95% CI, 0.1 to 0.8;  < 0.05), and reduced IL-1β (interleukin-1β) concentration (median change, -324.2 pg/ml; 95% CI, -938.7 to 290.4 pg/ml;  < 0.05) in sputum of Phe508del homozygous patients.  This study shows that lumacaftor-ivacaftor has beneficial effects on lung ventilation, morphology, and perfusion, as well as on the airway microbiome and inflammation in Phe508del homozygous patients. Our results suggest that LCI and MRI may be more sensitive than FEV% predicted to detect response to CFTR modulator therapy in patients with chronic CF lung disease. Clinical trial registered with ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT02807415)."	?
38690371	sputum 16S	Frontiers in microbiology	"{'i': 'Stenotrophomonas maltophilia', '#text': 'The airway microbiome of persons with cystic fibrosis correlates with acquisition and microbiological outcomes of incident  infection.'}"	"Chronic infection with  in persons with cystic fibrosis (pwCF) has been linked to an increased risk of pulmonary exacerbations and lung function decline. We sought to establish whether baseline sputum microbiome associates with risk of  incident infection and persistence in pwCF. pwCF experiencing incident  infections attending the Calgary Adult CF Clinic from 2010-2018 were compared with -negative sex, age (+/-2 years), and birth-cohort-matched controls. Infection outcomes were classified as persistent (when the pathogen was recovered in ≥50% of cultures in the subsequent year) or transient. We assessed microbial communities from prospectively biobanked sputum using V3-V4 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene sequencing, in the year preceding (Pre) ( = 57), at (At) ( = 22), and after (Post) ( = 31) incident infection. We verified relative abundance data using -specific qPCR and 16S rRNA-targeted qPCR to assess bioburden. Strains were typed using pulse-field gel electrophoresis. Twenty-five pwCF with incident  (56% female, median 29 years, median FEV 61%) with 33 total episodes were compared with 56 uninfected pwCF controls. Demographics and clinical characteristics were similar between cohorts. Among those with incident  infection, sputum communities did not cluster based on infection timeline (Pre, At, Post). Communities differed between the infection cohort and controls ( = 56) based on Shannon Diversity Index (SDI,  = 0.04) and clustered based on Aitchison distance (PERMANOVA,  = 0.01) prior to infection. At the time of incident  isolation, communities did not differ in SDI but clustered based on Aitchison distance (PERMANOVA,  = 0.03) in those that ultimately developed persistent infection versus those that were transient.  abundance within sputum was increased in samples from patients (Pre) relative to controls, measuring both relative ( = 0.004) and absolute ( = 0.001). Furthermore,  abundance was increased in sputum at incident infection in those who ultimately developed persistent infection relative to those with transient infection, measured relatively ( = 0.04) or absolute ( = 0.04), respectively. Microbial community composition of CF sputum associates with  infection acquisition as well as infection outcome. Our study suggests sputum microbiome may serve as a surrogate for identifying infection risk and persistence risk."	25
30827333	sputum 16S	Enfermedades infecciosas y microbiologia clinica (English ed.)	Airway microbiota in patients with paediatric cystic fibrosis: Relationship with clinical status.	"New massive sequencing techniques make it possible to determine the composition of airway microbiota in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). However, the relationship between the composition of lung microbiome and the clinical status of paediatric patients is still not fully understood. A cross-sectional observational study was conducted on induced sputum samples from children with CF and known mutation in the CFTR gene. The bacterial sequences of the 16SrRNA gene were analyzed and their association with various clinical variables studied. Analysis of the 13 samples obtained showed a core microbiome made up of Staphylococcus spp., Streptococcus spp., Rothia spp., Gemella spp. and Granulicatella spp., with a small number of Pseudomonas spp. The cluster of patients with less biodiversity were found to exhibit a greater number of sequences of Staphylococcus spp., mainly Staphylococcus aureus (p 0.009) and a greater degree of lung damage. An airway microbiome with greater biodiversity may be an indicator of less pronounced disease progression, in which case new therapeutic interventions that prevent reduction in non-pathogenic species of the airway microbiota should be studied."	13
37137746	sputum 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Upper airway microbiota development in infants with cystic fibrosis diagnosed by newborn screen.	"Changes in upper airway microbiota may impact early disease manifestations in infants with cystic fibrosis (CF). To investigate early airway microbiota, the microbiota present in the oropharynx of CF infants over the first year of life was assessed along with the relationships between microbiota and growth, antibiotic use and other clinical variables. Oropharyngeal (OP) swabs were collected longitudinally between 1 and 12 months of age from infants diagnosed with CF by newborn screen and enrolled in the Baby Observational and Nutrition Study (BONUS). DNA extraction was performed after enzymatic digestion of OP swabs. Total bacterial load was determined by qPCR and community composition assessed using 16S rRNA gene analysis (V1/V2 region). Changes in diversity with age were evaluated using mixed models with cubic B-splines. Associations between clinical variables and bacterial taxa were determined using a canonical correlation analysis. 1,052 OP swabs collected from 205 infants with CF were analyzed. Most infants (77%) received at least one course of antibiotics during the study and 131 OP swabs were collected while the infant was prescribed an antibiotic. Alpha diversity increased with age and was only marginally impacted by antibiotic use. Community composition was most highly correlated with age and was only moderately correlated with antibiotic exposure, feeding method and weight z-scores. Relative abundance of Streptococcus decreased while Neisseria and other taxa increased over the first year. Age was more influential on the oropharyngeal microbiota of infants with CF than clinical variables including antibiotics in the first year of life."	131
27548479	sputum 16S	PLoS pathogens	Evidence and Role for Bacterial Mucin Degradation in Cystic Fibrosis Airway Disease.	"Chronic lung infections in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients are composed of complex microbial communities that incite persistent inflammation and airway damage. Despite the high density of bacteria that colonize the lower airways, nutrient sources that sustain bacterial growth in vivo, and how those nutrients are derived, are not well characterized. In this study, we examined the possibility that mucins serve as an important carbon reservoir for the CF lung microbiota. While Pseudomonas aeruginosa was unable to efficiently utilize mucins in isolation, we found that anaerobic, mucin-fermenting bacteria could stimulate the robust growth of CF pathogens when provided intact mucins as a sole carbon source. 16S rRNA sequencing and enrichment culturing of sputum also identified that mucin-degrading anaerobes are ubiquitous in the airways of CF patients. The collective fermentative metabolism of these mucin-degrading communities in vitro generated amino acids and short chain fatty acids (propionate and acetate) during growth on mucin, and the same metabolites were also found in abundance within expectorated sputum. The significance of these findings was supported by in vivo P. aeruginosa gene expression, which revealed a heightened expression of genes required for the catabolism of propionate. Given that propionate is exclusively derived from bacterial fermentation, these data provide evidence for an important role of mucin fermenting bacteria in the carbon flux of the lower airways. More specifically, microorganisms typically defined as commensals may contribute to airway disease by degrading mucins, in turn providing nutrients for pathogens otherwise unable to efficiently obtain carbon in the lung."	?
34756681	sputum 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Unexpected associations between respiratory viruses and bacteria with Pulmonary Function Testing in children suffering from Cystic Fibrosis (MUCOVIB study).	"Various bacterial and viral assemblages composing Cystic Fibrosis (CF) lung microbiota contribute to long-term lung function decline over time. Yet, the impact of individual microorganisms on pulmonary functions remains uncertain in children with CF. As part of the 'Mucoviscidosis, respiratory VIruses, intracellular Bacteria and fastidious organisms'' project, children with CF were longitudinally followed in a Swiss multicentric study. Respiratory samples included mainly throat swabs and sputa samples for bacterial culture and 16S rRNA metagenomics and nasopharyngeal swabs for respiratory virus detection by molecular assays. Percentage of predicted Forced Expiratory Volume in one second (FEV1%) and Lung Clearance Index (LCI) were recorded. Sixty-one children, of whom 20 (32.8%) presented with at least one pulmonary exacerbation, were included. Almost half of the 363 nasopharyngeal swabs tested by RT-PCR were positive for a respiratory virus, mainly rhinovirus (26.5%). From linear mixed-effects regression models, P. aeruginosa (-11.35, 95%CI [-17.90; -4.80], p = 0.001) was significantly associated with a decreased FEV1%, whereas rhinovirus was associated with a significantly higher FEV1% (+4.24 95%CI [1.67; 6.81], p = 0.001). Compared to conventional culture, 16S rRNA metagenomics showed a sensitivity and specificity of 80.0% and 85.4%, respectively for detection of typical CF pathogens. However, metagenomics detected a bacteria almost twice more often than culture. As expected, P. aeruginosa impacted negatively on FEV1% while rhinovirus was surprisingly associated with better FEV1%. Culture-free assays identifie significantly more pathogens than standard culture, with disputable clinical correlation."	20
34104346	sputum 16S	Journal of oral microbiology	Citizen-science based study of the oral microbiome in Cystic fibrosis and matched controls reveals major differences in diversity and abundance of bacterial and fungal species.	": Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an autosomal genetic disease, associated with the production of excessively thick mucosa and with life-threatening chronic lung infections. The microbiota of the oral cavity can act as a reservoir or as a barrier for infectious microorganisms that can colonize the lungs. However, the specific composition of the oral microbiome in CF is poorly understood.: In collaboration with CF associations in Spain, we collected oral rinse samples from 31 CF persons (age range 7-47) and matched controls, and then performed 16S rRNA metabarcoding and high-throughput sequencing, combined with culture and proteomics-based identification of fungi to survey the bacterial and fungal oral microbiome.: We found that CF is associated with less diverse oral microbiomes, which were characterized by higher prevalence of Candida albicans and differential abundances of a number of bacterial taxa that have implications in both the connection to lung infections in CF, as well as potential oral health concerns, particularly periodontitis and dental caries.: Overall, our study provides a first global snapshot of the oral microbiome in CF. Future studies are required to establish the relationships between the composition of the oral and lung microbiomes in CF."	31
32426295	sputum 16S	Frontiers in cellular and infection microbiology	"{'i': 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa', '#text': 'Cystic Fibrosis Patients Infected With Epidemic  Strains Have Unique Microbial Communities.'}"	"is the archetypal cystic fibrosis (CF) pathogen. However, the clinical course experienced by infected individuals varies markedly. Understanding these differences is imperative if further improvements in outcomes are to be achieved. Multiple studies have found that patients infected with epidemic  (ePA) strains may have a worse clinical prognosis than those infected with unique, non-clonal strains. Additionally, the traditionally uncultured CF lung bacterial community (i.e., CF microbiome) may further influence the outcome. We sought to identify if these two important variables, not identified through routine culture, associate and together may contribute to disease pathogenesis. Patients were classified as being infected with Prairie Epidemic ePA (PES) or a non-clonal strain, unique PA strains (uPA), through a retrospective assessment of a comprehensive strain biobank using a combination of PFGE and PES-specific PCR. Patients were matched to age, sex, time-period controls and sputum samples from equivalent time periods were identified from a sputum biobank. Bacterial 16S rRNA gene profiling and  qPCR was used to characterize the respiratory microbiome. We identified 31 patients infected with PES and matched them with uPA controls. Patients infected with PES at baseline have lower microbial diversity (P = 0.02) and higher  relative abundance ( < 0.005). Microbial community structure was found to cluster by PA strain type, although it was not the main determinant of community structure as additional factors were also found to be drivers of CF community structure. Communities from PES infected individuals were enriched with  and  OTUs. The disproportionate disease experienced by ePA infected CF patients may be mediated through a combination of pathogen-pathogen factors as opposed to strictly enhanced virulence of infecting  strains."	31
29042177	sputum 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Antibiotic exposure and interpersonal variance mask the effect of ivacaftor on respiratory microbiota composition.	"G551D is a class III mutation of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator (CFTR) that results in impaired chloride channel function in cystic fibrosis (CF). Ivacaftor, a CFTR-potentiating agent improves sweat chloride, weight, lung function, and pulmonary exacerbation rate in CF patients with G551D mutations, but its effect on the airway microbiome remains poorly characterised. Twenty CF patients with at least one G551D mutation from a single centre were recruited to a 4month double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study of ivacaftor with 28days of active treatment. Sputum microbiota composition was assessed by 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing and quantitative PCR at five key time points, along with regular clinical review, respiratory function assessment, and peripheral blood testing. No significant difference in microbiota composition was observed in subjects following ivacaftor treatment or placebo (PERMANOVA P=0.95, square root ECV=-4.94, 9479 permutations). Microbiota composition variance was significantly greater between subjects, than within subjects over time (P<0.0001, Mann Whitney U test), and an additional within-patient paired assessment of microbiota similarity was therefore performed. Again, change in microbiota composition was not significantly greater during treatment with ivacaftor compared to placebo (Wilcoxon test, P=0.51). A significant change in microbiota composition was however associated with any change in antibiotic exposure, regardless of whether ivacaftor or placebo was administered (P=0.006). In a small, subgroup analysis of subjects whose antibiotic exposure did not change within the study period, a significant reduction in total bacterial load was observed during treatment with ivacaftor (P=0.004, two-tailed paired Student's t-test). The short-term impact of ivacaftor therapy on sputum microbiota composition in patients with G551D mutations are modest compared to those resulting from antibiotic exposure, and may be masked by changes in antibiotic treatment regimen."	20
30914718	sputum 16S	Scientific reports	Longitudinal development of the airway microbiota in infants with cystic fibrosis.	"The pathogenesis of airway infection in cystic fibrosis (CF) is poorly understood. We performed a longitudinal study coupling clinical information with frequent sampling of the microbiota to identify changes in the airway microbiota in infancy that could underpin deterioration and potentially be targeted therapeutically. Thirty infants with CF diagnosed on newborn screening (NBS) were followed for up to two years. Two hundred and forty one throat swabs were collected as a surrogate for lower airway microbiota (median 35 days between study visits) in the largest longitudinal study of the CF oropharyngeal microbiota. Quantitative PCR and Illumina sequencing of the 16S rRNA bacterial gene were performed. Data analyses were conducted in QIIME and Phyloseq in R. Streptococcus spp. and Haemophilus spp. were the most common genera (55% and 12.5% of reads respectively) and were inversely related. Only beta (between sample) diversity changed with age (Bray Curtis r = 0.15, P = 0.03). Staphylococcus and Pseudomonas were rarely detected. These results suggest that Streptococcus spp. and Haemophilus spp., may play an important role in early CF. Whether they are protective against infection with more typical CF micro-organisms, or pathogenic and thus meriting treatment needs to be determined."	241
27355625	sputum 16S	PloS one	Pyrosequencing Unveils Cystic Fibrosis Lung Microbiome Differences Associated with a Severe Lung Function Decline.	"Chronic airway infection is a hallmark feature of cystic fibrosis (CF) disease. In the present study, sputum samples from CF patients were collected and characterized by 16S rRNA gene-targeted approach, to assess how lung microbiota composition changes following a severe decline in lung function. In particular, we compared the airway microbiota of two groups of patients with CF, i.e. patients with a substantial decline in their lung function (SD) and patients with a stable lung function (S). The two groups showed a different bacterial composition, with SD patients reporting a more heterogeneous community than the S ones. Pseudomonas was the dominant genus in both S and SD patients followed by Staphylococcus and Prevotella. Other than the classical CF pathogens and the most commonly identified non-classical genera in CF, we found the presence of the unusual anaerobic genus Sneathia. Moreover, the oligotyping analysis revealed the presence of other minor genera described in CF, highlighting the polymicrobial nature of CF infection. Finally, the analysis of correlation and anti-correlation networks showed the presence of antagonism and ecological independence between members of Pseudomonas genus and the rest of CF airways microbiota, with S patients showing a more interconnected community in S patients than in SD ones. This population structure suggests a higher resilience of S microbiota with respect to SD, which in turn may hinder the potential adverse impact of aggressive pathogens (e.g. Pseudomonas). In conclusion, our findings shed a new light on CF airway microbiota ecology, improving current knowledge about its composition and polymicrobial interactions in patients with CF."	?
34513734	sputum 16S	Frontiers in cellular and infection microbiology	An Innovative Protocol for Metaproteomic Analyses of Microbial Pathogens in Cystic Fibrosis Sputum.	"Hallmarks of cystic fibrosis (CF) are increased viscosity of mucus and impaired mucociliary clearance within the airways due to mutations of the cystic fibrosis conductance regulator gene. This facilitates the colonization of the lung by microbial pathogens and the concomitant establishment of chronic infections leading to tissue damage, reduced lung function, and decreased life expectancy. Although the interplay between key CF pathogens plays a major role during disease progression, the pathophysiology of the microbial community in CF lungs remains poorly understood. Particular challenges in the analysis of the microbial population present in CF sputum is (I) the inhomogeneous, viscous, and slimy consistence of CF sputum, and (II) the high number of human proteins masking comparably low abundant microbial proteins. To address these challenges, we used 21 CF sputum samples to develop a reliable, reproducible and widely applicable protocol for sputum processing, microbial enrichment, cell disruption, protein extraction and subsequent metaproteomic analyses. As a proof of concept, we selected three sputum samples for detailed metaproteome analyses and complemented and validated metaproteome data by 16S sequencing, metabolomic as well as microscopic analyses. Applying our protocol, the number of bacterial proteins/protein groups increased from 199-425 to 392-868 in enriched samples compared to nonenriched controls. These early microbial metaproteome data suggest that the arginine deiminase pathway and multiple proteases and peptidases identified from various bacterial genera could so far be underappreciated in their contribution to the CF pathophysiology. By providing a standardized and effective protocol for sputum processing and microbial enrichment, our study represents an important basis for future studies investigating the physiology of microbial pathogens in CF  - an important prerequisite for the development of novel antimicrobial therapies to combat chronic recurrent airway infection in CF."	21
38199892	sputum 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	"Nasal lavage microbiome, but not nasal swab microbiome, correlates with sinonasal inflammation in children with cystic fibrosis."	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is characterized by highly viscous mucus obstructing the lower and upper airways, chronic neutrophil inflammation and infection resulting not only in lung destruction but also in paranasal sinus involvement. The pathogenesis of CF-associated chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) is still not well understood, and it remains unclear how the microbiome in the upper airways (UAW) influences paranasal sinus inflammation. In a cross-sectional study in pediatric patients with CF under stable disease conditions, we examined the microbiome in relation to inflammation by comparing nasal swabs (NS) and nasal lavage (NL) as two UAW sampling methods. The microbiota structure of both NS and NL was determined by 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing. In addition, pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, TNF-α) and proteases (SLPI, TIMP-1, NE/A1-AT complex) as well as neutrophil elastase activity were measured in NL. Simultaneous NS and NL samples were collected from 36 patients with CF (age range: 7 - 19 years). The microbiome of NS samples was shown to be significantly lower in α-diversity and evenness compared to NL samples. NS samples were particularly found to be colonized with Staphylococcus species. NL microbiome was shown to correlate much better with the sinonasal inflammation status than NS microbiome. Especially the detection of Moraxella in NL was associated with increased inflammatory response. Our results show that the NL microbiome reflects sinonasal inflammation better than NS and support NL as a promising tool for simultaneous assessment of the UAW microbiome and inflammation in children with CF."	36
21829484	sputum 16S	PloS one	Culture enriched molecular profiling of the cystic fibrosis airway microbiome.	"The microbiome of the respiratory tract, including the nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal microbiota, is a dynamic community of microorganisms that is highly diverse. The cystic fibrosis (CF) airway microbiome refers to the polymicrobial communities present in the lower airways of CF patients. It is comprised of chronic opportunistic pathogens (such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa) and a variety of organisms derived mostly from the normal microbiota of the upper respiratory tract. The complexity of these communities has been inferred primarily from culture independent molecular profiling. As with most microbial communities it is generally assumed that most of the organisms present are not readily cultured. Our culture collection generated using more extensive cultivation approaches, reveals a more complex microbial community than that obtained by conventional CF culture methods. To directly evaluate the cultivability of the airway microbiome, we examined six samples in depth using culture-enriched molecular profiling which combines culture-based methods with the molecular profiling methods of terminal restriction fragment length polymorphisms and 16S rRNA gene sequencing. We demonstrate that combining culture-dependent and culture-independent approaches enhances the sensitivity of either approach alone. Our techniques were able to cultivate 43 of the 48 families detected by deep sequencing; the five families recovered solely by culture-independent approaches were all present at very low abundance (<0.002% total reads). 46% of the molecular signatures detected by culture from the six patients were only identified in an anaerobic environment, suggesting that a large proportion of the cultured airway community is composed of obligate anaerobes. Most significantly, using 20 growth conditions per specimen, half of which included anaerobic cultivation and extended incubation times we demonstrate that the majority of bacteria present can be cultured."	48
28476135	sputum 16S	Microbiome	The effects of inhaled aztreonam on the cystic fibrosis lung microbiome.	"Aztreonam lysine for inhalation (AZLI) is an inhaled antibiotic used to treat chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection in CF. AZLI improves lung function and quality of life, and reduces exacerbations-improvements attributed to its antipseudomonal activity. Given the extremely high aztreonam concentrations achieved in the lower airways by nebulization, we speculate this may extend its spectrum of activity to other organisms. As such, we sought to determine if AZLI affects the CF lung microbiome and whether community constituents can be used to predict treatment responsiveness. Patients were included if they had chronic P. aeruginosa infection and repeated sputum samples collected before and after AZLI. Sputum DNA was extracted, and the V3-hypervariable region of the 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene amplified and sequenced. Twenty-four patients naïve to AZLI contributed 162 samples. The cohort had a median age of 37.1 years, and a  median FEV of 44% predicted. Fourteen patients were a priori defined as responders for achieving ≥3% FEV improvement following initiation. No significant changes in alpha diversity were noted following AZLI. Furthermore, beta diversity demonstrated clustering with respect to patients, but had no association with AZLI use. However, we did observe a decline in the relative abundance of several individual operational taxonomic units (OTUs) following AZLI initiation suggesting that specific sub-populations of organisms may be impacted. Patients with higher abundance of Staphylococcus and anaerobic organisms including Prevotella and Fusobacterium were less likely to respond to therapy. Results from our study suggest potential alternate/additional mechanisms by which AZLI functions. Moreover, our study suggests that the CF microbiota may be used as a biomarker to predict patient responsiveness to therapy suggesting the microbiome may be harnessed for the personalization of therapies."	162
30284279	sputum 16S	The Laryngoscope	Loss of Microbial Niche Specificity Between the Upper and Lower Airways in Patients With Cystic Fibrosis.	"To determine the relationship between mucosal-associated sinus and bronchial microbiota in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients compared to non-CF patients with chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS). Case series. We examined the microbial composition of 52 paired sinus and bronchial brushings from 26 patients with CRS. Paired airway samples from nine subjects with CF were compared with samples from 17 non-CF-CRS disease control patients. The Illumina MiSeq platform was used to sequence the V4 region of the 16S rRNA gene. Sequences were analyzed using QIIME 1.9.0. CF patients demonstrate increased severity of sinus inflammation (Lund-Mackay score 16.3 vs. 12.4, P = .023) and diminished diversity of microbial communities in both the sinuses (Shannon diversity 0.98 vs. 3.3, P = .009) and lungs (Shannon diversity 2.2 vs. 4.0, P = .042) relative to non-CF-CRS. Non-CF-CRS sinus and lung microbiota were distinct and clustered by niche (sinus vs. lung, P = .004). However, CF airway microbiota demonstrated a loss of niche specificity (sinus vs. lung, P = .492). Two CF patients underwent lung transplantation at 4.5 and 9 months prior to sampling. Sinus and lung samples from these two patients demonstrated distinct microbial communities. Patients with CF undergoing surgery for CRS exhibit substantial bacterial community collapse in the sinuses and a loss of niche specificity between the upper and lower airways compared to non-CF patients with CRS. These results extend previous studies elucidating the lower airway microbiome in cystic fibrosis and provide support for the concept of microbial translocation in the cystic fibrosis airways. 4 Laryngoscope, 129:544-550, 2019."	52
26492486	sputum 16S	American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine	Development of the Nasopharyngeal Microbiota in Infants with Cystic Fibrosis.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is characterized by early structural lung disease caused by pulmonary infections. The nasopharynx of infants is a major ecological reservoir of potential respiratory pathogens. To investigate the development of nasopharyngeal microbiota profiles in infants with CF compared with those of healthy control subjects during the first 6 months of life. We conducted a prospective cohort study, from the time of diagnosis onward, in which we collected questionnaires and 324 nasopharynx samples from 20 infants with CF and 45 age-matched healthy control subjects. Microbiota profiles were characterized by 16S ribosomal RNA-based sequencing. We observed significant differences in microbial community composition (P < 0.0002 by permutational multivariate analysis of variance) and development between groups. In infants with CF, early Staphylococcus aureus and, to a lesser extent, Corynebacterium spp. and Moraxella spp. dominance were followed by a switch to Streptococcus mitis predominance after 3 months of age. In control subjects, Moraxella spp. enrichment occurred throughout the first 6 months of life. In a multivariate analysis, S. aureus, S. mitis, Corynebacterium accolens, and bacilli were significantly more abundant in infants with CF, whereas Moraxella spp., Corynebacterium pseudodiphtericum and Corynebacterium propinquum and Haemophilus influenzae were significantly more abundant in control subjects, after correction for age, antibiotic use, and respiratory symptoms. Antibiotic use was independently associated with increased colonization of gram-negative bacteria such as Burkholderia spp. and members of the Enterobacteriaceae bacteria family and reduced colonization of potential beneficial commensals. From diagnosis onward, we observed distinct patterns of nasopharyngeal microbiota development in infants with CF under 6 months of age compared with control subjects and a marked effect of antibiotic therapy leading toward a gram-negative microbial composition."	324
20631810	sputum 16S	The ISME journal	Phylogenetic and metabolic diversity of bacteria associated with cystic fibrosis.	"In patients afflicted with cystic fibrosis (CF), morbidity and mortality are primarily associated with the adverse consequences of chronic microbial bronchial infections, which are thought to be caused by a few opportunistic pathogens. However, recent evidence suggests the presence of other microorganisms, which may significantly affect the course and outcome of the infection. Using a combination of 16S rRNA gene clone libraries, bacterial culturing and pyrosequencing of barcoded 16S rRNA amplicons, the microbial communities present in CF patient sputum samples were examined. In addition to previously recognized CF pathogens such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus, >60 phylogenetically diverse bacterial genera that are not typically associated with CF pathogenesis were also detected. A surprisingly large number of fermenting facultative and obligate anaerobes from multiple bacterial phyla was present in each sample. Many of the bacteria and sequences found were normal residents of the oropharyngeal microflora and with many containing opportunistic pathogens. Our data suggest that these undersampled organisms within the CF lung are part of a much more complex microbial ecosystem than is normally presumed. Characterization of these communities is the first step in elucidating potential roles of diverse bacteria in disease progression and to ultimately facilitate advances in CF therapy."	?
35360097	sputum 16S	Frontiers in cellular and infection microbiology	Network Analysis to Identify Multi-Omic Correlations in the Lower Airways of Children With Cystic Fibrosis.	"The leading cause of morbidity and mortality in cystic fibrosis (CF) is progressive lung disease secondary to chronic airway infection and inflammation; however, what drives CF airway infection and inflammation is not well understood. By providing a physiological snapshot of the airway, metabolomics can provide insight into these processes. Linking metabolomic data with microbiome data and phenotypic measures can reveal complex relationships between metabolites, lower airway bacterial communities, and disease outcomes. In this study, we characterize the airway metabolome in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) samples from persons with CF (PWCF) and disease control (DC) subjects and use multi-omic network analysis to identify correlations with the airway microbiome. The Biocrates targeted liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC-MS) platform was used to measure 409 metabolomic features in BALF obtained during clinically indicated bronchoscopy. Total bacterial load (TBL) was measured using quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). The Qiagen EZ1 Advanced automated extraction platform was used to extract DNA, and bacterial profiling was performed using 16S sequencing. Differences in metabolomic features across disease groups were assessed univariately using Wilcoxon rank sum tests, and Random forest (RF) was used to identify features that discriminated across the groups. Features were compared to TBL and markers of inflammation, including white blood cell count (WBC) and percent neutrophils. Sparse supervised canonical correlation network analysis (SsCCNet) was used to assess multi-omic correlations. The CF metabolome was characterized by increased amino acids and decreased acylcarnitines. Amino acids and acylcarnitines were also among the features most strongly correlated with inflammation and bacterial burden. RF identified strong metabolomic predictors of CF status, including L-methionine-S-oxide. SsCCNet identified correlations between the metabolome and the microbiome, including correlations between a traditional CF pathogen, , a group of nontraditional taxa, including , and a subnetwork of specific metabolomic markers. In conclusion, our work identified metabolomic characteristics unique to the CF airway and uncovered multi-omic correlations that merit additional study."	?
28280235	sputum 16S	Thorax	The lower airway microbiota in early cystic fibrosis lung disease: a longitudinal analysis.	"In infants and young children with cystic fibrosis, lower airway infection and inflammation are associated with adverse respiratory outcomes. However, the role of lower airway microbiota in the pathogenesis of early cystic fibrosis lung disease remains uncertain. To assess the development of the lower airway microbiota over time in infants and young children with cystic fibrosis, and to explore its association with airway inflammation and pulmonary function at age 6 years. Serial, semi-annual bronchoscopies and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) procedures were performed in infants newly diagnosed with cystic fibrosis following newborn screening. Quantitative microbiological cultures and inflammatory marker (interleukin 8 and neutrophil elastase) measurements were undertaken contemporaneously. 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequencing was conducted on stored BAL samples. Spirometry results recorded at 6 years of age were extracted from medical records. Ninety-five BAL samples provided 16S ribosomal RNA gene data. These were collected from 48 subjects aged 1.2-78.3 months, including longitudinal samples from 27 subjects and 13 before age 6 months. The lower airway microbiota varied, but diversity decreased with advancing age. Detection of recognised cystic fibrosis bacterial pathogens was associated with reduced microbial diversity and greater lower airway inflammation. There was no association between the lower airway microbiota and pulmonary function at age 6 years. In infants with cystic fibrosis, the lower airway microbiota is dynamic. Dominance of the microbiota by recognised cystic fibrosis bacterial pathogens is associated with increased lower airway inflammation, however early microbial diversity is not associated with pulmonary function at 6 years of age."	95
28766039	sputum 16S	Mycopathologia	"Fungal and Bacterial Diversity of Airway Microbiota in Adults with Cystic Fibrosis: Concordance Between Conventional Methods and Ultra-Deep Sequencing, and Their Practical use in the Clinical Laboratory."	"Given the complexity of the airway microbiota in the respiratory tract of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients, it seems crucial to compile the most exhaustive and exact list of the microbial communities inhabiting CF airways. The aim of the present study was to compare the bacterial and fungal diversity of sputa from adult CF patients during non-exacerbation period by culture-based and molecular methods, and ultra-deep-sequencing (UDS). Sputum samples from four CF patients were cultured and analysed by DNA extractions followed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis through resolution of bacterial ribosomal gene (rDNA) fragments, and cloning plus sequencing of part of fungal rRNA genes. These approaches were compared with UDS method targeting 16S rDNA gene and the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) 2 region of rDNA. A total of 27 bacterial and 18 fungal genera were detected from the four patients. Five (18%) and 3 (16%) genera were detected by culture for bacteria and fungi, respectively, 9 (33%) and 3 (16%) by first generation sequencing (FGS) methods, and 26 (96%) and 18 (100%) by UDS. The mean number of genera detected by UDS per patient was statistically higher than by culture or FGS methods. Patients with severe airway disease as assessed by standard spirometry exhibited a reduced fungal and bacterial diversity. UDS approach evaluates more extensively the diversity of fungal and bacterial flora compared with cultures. However, it currently remains difficult to routinely use UDS mainly because of the lack of standardization, and the current cost of this method."	4
25818499	sputum 16S	The Journal of pediatrics	Associations between Gut Microbial Colonization in Early Life and Respiratory Outcomes in Cystic Fibrosis.	"To examine patterns of microbial colonization of the respiratory and intestinal tracts in early life in infants with cystic fibrosis (CF) and their associations with breastfeeding and clinical outcomes. A comprehensive, prospective longitudinal analysis of the upper respiratory and intestinal microbiota in a cohort of infants and young children with CF followed from birth was performed. Genus-level microbial community composition was characterized using 16S-targeted pyrosequencing, and relationships with exposures and outcomes were assessed using linear mixed-effects models, time-to-event analysis, and principal components analysis. Sequencing of 120 samples from 13 subjects collected from birth to 34 months revealed relationships between breastfeeding, microbial diversity in the respiratory and intestinal tracts, and the timing of onset of respiratory complications, including exacerbations and colonization with Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Fluctuations in the abundance of specific bacterial taxa preceded clinical outcomes, including a significant decrease in bacteria of the genus Parabacteroides within the intestinal tract prior to the onset of chronic P aeruginosa colonization. Specific assemblages of bacteria in intestinal samples, but not respiratory samples, were associated with CF exacerbation in early life, indicating that the intestinal microbiome may play a role in lung health. Our findings relating breastfeeding to respiratory outcomes, gut diversity to prolonged periods of health, and specific bacterial communities in the gut prior to respiratory complications in CF highlight a connection between the intestinal microbiome and health and point to potential opportunities for antibiotic or probiotic interventions. Further studies in larger cohorts validating these findings are needed."	120
22753064	sputum 16S	Journal of bacteriology	Prevalence of streptococci and increased polymicrobial diversity associated with cystic fibrosis patient stability.	"Diverse microbial communities chronically colonize the lungs of cystic fibrosis patients. Pyrosequencing of amplicons for hypervariable regions in the 16S rRNA gene generated taxonomic profiles of bacterial communities for sputum genomic DNA samples from 22 patients during a state of clinical stability (outpatients) and 13 patients during acute exacerbation (inpatients). We employed quantitative PCR (qPCR) to confirm the detection of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Streptococcus by the pyrosequencing data and human oral microbe identification microarray (HOMIM) analysis to determine the species of the streptococci identified by pyrosequencing. We show that outpatient sputum samples have significantly higher bacterial diversity than inpatients, but maintenance treatment with tobramycin did not impact overall diversity. Contrary to the current dogma in the field that Pseudomonas aeruginosa is the dominant organism in the majority of cystic fibrosis patients, Pseudomonas constituted the predominant genera in only half the patient samples analyzed and reported here. The increased fractional representation of Streptococcus in the outpatient cohort relative to the inpatient cohort was the strongest predictor of clinically stable lung disease. The most prevalent streptococci included species typically associated with the oral cavity (Streptococcus salivarius and Streptococcus parasanguis) and the Streptococcus milleri group species. These species of Streptococcus may play an important role in increasing the diversity of the cystic fibrosis lung environment and promoting patient stability."	22
28666467	sputum 16S	Microbiome	The metabolic footprint of the airway bacterial community in cystic fibrosis.	"Progressive, chronic bacterial infection of the airways is a leading cause of death in cystic fibrosis (CF). Culture-independent methods based on sequencing of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene describe a distinct microbial community that decreases in richness and diversity with disease progression. Understanding the functional characteristics of the microbial community may aid in identifying potential therapies and may assist in management, but current methods are cumbersome. Here, we demonstrate the use of an oxidative metabolic assay as a complement to sequencing methods to describe the microbiome in the airways of patients with CF. Expectorated sputum was collected from 16 CF subjects and 8 control subjects. The Biolog Gen III Microplate was used in a community-level physiological profiling (CLPP)-based assay to examine oxidative metabolic activity. 16S rRNA V4 amplicon sequencing was used to characterize the taxonomy and diversity of the samples. Correlations were then identified among the oxidative activity and taxonomy data. In an additional paired analysis, sputum from seven CF subjects were collected at two separate clinic visits and compared for oxidative activity, taxonomy, and diversity. Significant differences in oxidative metabolic activity, microbial taxonomy, and diversity were found between the CF and control sputum samples. Oxidative activity correlated positively with total genera but not with other measures of diversity or taxonomy, demonstrating that the metabolic assay complements the structural aspects of the microbiome. As expected, Pseudomonas was significantly enriched in CF samples, while Streptococcus and Prevotella were similarly abundant in both CF and control samples. Paired analysis of CF samples at separate clinic visits revealed comparable oxidative activity that correlated with similar stability in taxonomy and diversity. The CLPP assay used in this study complements existing sequencing methods to delineate the oxidative metabolic footprint of the CF airway bacterial community. This method may be useful to study the CF microbial community over time and with changes in disease state."	16
23802813	sputum 16S	Annals of the American Thoracic Society	Changes in cystic fibrosis airway microbiota at pulmonary exacerbation.	"In persons with cystic fibrosis (CF), repeated exacerbations of pulmonary symptoms are associated with a progressive decline in lung function. Changes in the airway microbiota around the time of exacerbations are not well understood. To characterize changes in airway bacterial communities around the time of exacerbations and to identify predictors for these changes. DNA prepared from 68 paired baseline and exacerbation sputum samples collected from 28 patients with CF were subjected to barcoded 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing. Bacterial density was calculated by quantitative PCR. Overall, significant differences in bacterial community diversity and bacterial density between baseline and exacerbation samples were not observed. However, considerable changes in community structures were observed in a subset of patients. In these patients, the dominant taxa and initial level of community diversity were significant predictors of the magnitude of community structure changes at exacerbation. Pseudomonas-dominant communities became more diverse at exacerbation compared with communities with other or no dominant species. The relative abundance of Gemella increased in 24 (83%) of 29 samples at exacerbation and was found to be the most discriminative genus between baseline and exacerbation samples. The magnitude of changes in the CF lung microbiota around the time of exacerbation was found to be largely dependent on community diversity and composition at baseline. Certain genera appear to play important roles in driving change in airway bacterial community composition at exacerbation. Gemella might play a direct role in and/or be a biomarker for pulmonary exacerbation."	28
30546102	sputum 16S	Scientific reports	Impact of CFTR modulation with Ivacaftor on Gut Microbiota and Intestinal Inflammation.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is caused by mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene. Next to progressive airway disease, CF is also associated with intestinal inflammation and dysbiosis. Ivacaftor, a CFTR potentiator, has improved pulmonary and nutritional status but its effects on the intestinal microbiota and inflammation are unclear. Hence, we assessed the changes on the intestinal microbial communities (16S rRNA variable 3 gene region) and inflammatory markers (calprotectin and M2-pyruvate kinase [M2-PK]) in 16 CF individuals (8 children and 8 adults) before and after (median 6.1 months) ivacaftor. Stool calprotectin significantly decreased following ivacaftor (median [IQR]: 154.4 [102.1-284.2] vs. 87.5 [19.5-190.2] mg/kg, P = 0.03). There was a significant increase in Akkermansia with ivacaftor. Increased abundance of Akkermansia was associated with normal stool M2-PK concentrations, and decreased abundances of Enterobacteriaceae correlated with decreased stool calprotectin concentrations. In summary, changes in the gut microbiome and decrease in intestinal inflammation was associated with Ivacaftor treatment among individuals with CF carrying at least one gating CFTR mutation. Thus, CFTR-modifying therapy may adequately improve the aberrant pathophysiology and milieu of the CF gut to favor a more healthy microbiota, which in turn reduces intestinal inflammation."	16
32944872	sputum 16S	Brazilian journal of microbiology : [publication of the Brazilian Society for Microbiology]	Analysis of airway microbiota in adults from a Brazilian cystic fibrosis center.	"The application of next-generation sequencing tools revealed that the cystic fibrosis respiratory tract is a polymicrobial environment. We have characterized the airway bacterial microbiota of five adult patients with cystic fibrosis during a 14-month period by 16S rRNA tag sequencing using the Illumina technology. Microbial diversity, estimated by the Shannon index, varied among patient samples collected throughout the follow-up period. The beta diversity analysis revealed that the composition of the airway microbiota was highly specific for each patient, showing little variation among the samples of each patient analyzed over time. The composition of the bacterial microbiota did not reveal any emerging pathogen predictor of pulmonary disease in cystic fibrosis or of its unfavorable clinical progress, except for unveiling the presence of anaerobic microorganisms, even without any established clinical association. Our results could potentialy help us to translate and develop strategies in response to the pathobiology of this disease, particularly because it represents an innovative approach for CF centers in Brazil."	?
28253277	sputum 16S	PloS one	Longitudinal sampling of the lung microbiota in individuals with cystic fibrosis.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) manifests in the lungs resulting in chronic microbial infection. Most morbidity and mortality in CF is due to cycles of pulmonary exacerbations-episodes of acute inflammation in response to the lung microbiome-which are difficult to prevent and treat because their cause is not well understood. We hypothesized that longitudinal analyses of the bacterial component of the CF lung microbiome may elucidate causative agents within this community for pulmonary exacerbations. In this study, 6 participants were sampled thrice-weekly for up to one year. During sampling, sputum, and data (antibiotic usage, spirometry, and symptom scores) were collected. Time points were categorized based on relation to exacerbation as Stable, Intermediate, and Treatment. Retrospectively, a subset of were interrogated via 16S rRNA gene sequencing. When samples were examined categorically, a significant difference between the lung microbiota in Stable, Intermediate, and Treatment samples was observed in a subset of participants. However, when samples were examined longitudinally, no correlations between microbial composition and collected data (antibiotic usage, spirometry, and symptom scores) were observed upon exacerbation onset. In this study, we identified no universal indicator within the lung microbiome of exacerbation onset but instead showed that changes to the CF lung microbiome occur outside of acute pulmonary episodes and are patient-specific."	?
25658710	sputum 16S	PloS one	Intestinal lesions are associated with altered intestinal microbiome and are more frequent in children and young adults with cystic fibrosis and cirrhosis.	"Cirrhosis (CIR) occurs in 5-7% of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. We hypothesized that alterations in intestinal function in CF contribute to the development of CIR. Determine the frequency of macroscopic intestinal lesions, intestinal inflammation, intestinal permeability and characterize fecal microbiome in CF CIR subjects and CF subjects with no liver disease (CFnoLIV). 11 subjects with CFCIR (6 M, 12.8 yrs ± 3.8) and 19 matched with CFnoLIV (10 M, 12.6 yrs ± 3.4) underwent small bowel capsule endoscopy, intestinal permeability testing by urinary lactulose: mannitol excretion ratio, fecal calprotectin determination and fecal microbiome characterization. CFCIR and CFnoLIV did not differ in key demographics or CF complications. CFCIR had higher GGT (59±51 U/L vs 17±4 p = 0.02) and lower platelet count (187±126 vs 283±60 p = 0.04) and weight (-0.86 ± 1.0 vs 0.30 ± 0.9 p = 0.002) z scores. CFCIR had more severe intestinal mucosal lesions on capsule endoscopy (score ≥4, 4/11 vs 0/19 p = 0.01). Fecal calprotectin was similar between CFCIR and CFnoLIV (166 μg/g ±175 vs 136 ± 193 p = 0.58, nl <120). Lactulose:mannitol ratio was elevated in 27/28 subjects and was slightly lower in CFCIR vs CFnoLIV (0.08±0.02 vs 0.11±0.05, p = 0.04, nl ≤0.03). Small bowel transit time was longer in CFCIR vs CFnoLIV (195±42 min vs 167±68 p<0.001, nl 274 ± 41). Bacteroides were decreased in relative abundance in CFCIR and were associated with lower capsule endoscopy score whereas Clostridium were more abundant in CFCIR and associated with higher capsule endoscopy score. CFCIR is associated with increased intestinal mucosal lesions, slower small bowel transit time and alterations in fecal microbiome. Abnormal intestinal permeability and elevated fecal calprotectin are common in all CF subjects. Disturbances in intestinal function in CF combined with changes in the microbiome may contribute to the development of hepatic fibrosis and intestinal lesions."	?
23056217	sputum 16S	PloS one	Analysis of the cystic fibrosis lung microbiota via serial Illumina sequencing of bacterial 16S rRNA hypervariable regions.	"The characterization of bacterial communities using DNA sequencing has revolutionized our ability to study microbes in nature and discover the ways in which microbial communities affect ecosystem functioning and human health. Here we describe Serial Illumina Sequencing (SI-Seq): a method for deep sequencing of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene using next-generation sequencing technology. SI-Seq serially sequences portions of the V5, V6 and V7 hypervariable regions from barcoded 16S rRNA amplicons using an Illumina short-read genome analyzer. SI-Seq obtains taxonomic resolution similar to 454 pyrosequencing for a fraction of the cost, and can produce hundreds of thousands of reads per sample even with very high multiplexing. We validated SI-Seq using single species and mock community controls, and via a comparison to cystic fibrosis lung microbiota sequenced using 454 FLX Titanium. Our control runs show that SI-Seq has a dynamic range of at least five orders of magnitude, can classify >96% of sequences to the genus level, and performs just as well as 454 and paired-end Illumina methods in estimation of standard microbial ecology diversity measurements. We illustrate the utility of SI-Seq in a pilot sample of central airway secretion samples from cystic fibrosis patients."	?
22558432	sputum 16S	PloS one	The airway microbiota in cystic fibrosis: a complex fungal and bacterial community--implications for therapeutic management.	"Given the polymicrobial nature of pulmonary infections in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF), it is essential to enhance our knowledge on the composition of the microbial community to improve patient management. In this study, we developed a pyrosequencing approach to extensively explore the diversity and dynamics of fungal and prokaryotic populations in CF lower airways. Fungi and bacteria diversity in eight sputum samples collected from four adult CF patients was investigated using conventional microbiological culturing and high-throughput pyrosequencing approach targeting the ITS2 locus and the 16S rDNA gene. The unveiled microbial community structure was compared to the clinical profile of the CF patients. Pyrosequencing confirmed recently reported bacterial diversity and observed complex fungal communities, in which more than 60% of the species or genera were not detected by cultures. Strikingly, the diversity and species richness of fungal and bacterial communities was significantly lower in patients with decreased lung function and poor clinical status. Values of Chao1 richness estimator were statistically correlated with values of the Shwachman-Kulczycki score, body mass index, forced vital capacity, and forced expiratory volume in 1 s (p = 0.046, 0.047, 0.004, and 0.001, respectively for fungal Chao1 indices, and p = 0.010, 0.047, 0.002, and 0.0003, respectively for bacterial Chao1 values). Phylogenetic analysis showed high molecular diversities at the sub-species level for the main fungal and bacterial taxa identified in the present study. Anaerobes were isolated with Pseudomonas aeruginosa, which was more likely to be observed in association with Candida albicans than with Aspergillus fumigatus. In light of the recent concept of CF lung microbiota, we viewed the microbial community as a unique pathogenic entity. We thus interpreted our results to highlight the potential interactions between microorganisms and the role of fungi in the context of improving survival in CF."	8
29161417	sputum 16S	The Journal of clinical endocrinology and metabolism	"Bolus Weekly Vitamin D3 Supplementation Impacts Gut and Airway Microbiota in Adults With Cystic Fibrosis: A Double-Blind, Randomized, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trial."	"Disruption of gut microbiota may exacerbate severity of cystic fibrosis (CF). Vitamin D deficiency is a common comorbidity in patients with CF that may influence composition of the gut microbiota. Compare microbiota of vitamin D-sufficient and -insufficient CF patients and assess impact of a weekly high-dose vitamin D3 bolus regimen on gut and airway microbiome in adults with CF and vitamin D insufficiency (25-hydroxyvitamin D < 30 ng/mL). Forty-one subjects with CF were classified into two groups: vitamin D insufficient (n = 23) and vitamin D sufficient (n = 18). Subjects with vitamin D insufficiency were randomized to receive 50,000 IU of oral vitamin D3 or placebo weekly for 12 weeks. Sputum and stool samples were obtained pre- and postintervention and 16S ribosomal RNA genes sequenced using Illumina MiSeq technology. Gut microbiota differed significantly based on vitamin D status with Gammaproteobacteria, which contain numerous, potentially pathogenic species enriched in the vitamin D-insufficient group. Principal coordinates analysis showed differential gut microbiota composition within the vitamin D-insufficient patients following 12 weeks treatment with placebo or vitamin D3 (permutation multivariate analysis of variance = 0.024), with Lactococcus significantly enriched in subjects treated with vitamin D3, whereas Veillonella and Erysipelotrichaceae were significantly enriched in patients treated with placebo. This exploratory study suggests that vitamin D insufficiency is associated with alterations in microbiota composition that may promote inflammation and that supplementation with vitamin D has the potential to impact microbiota composition. Additional studies to determine the impact of vitamin D on microbiota benefit clinical outcomes in CF are warranted."	41
28826586	sputum 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	16S rRNA gene sequencing reveals site-specific signatures of the upper and lower airways of cystic fibrosis patients.	"Metastasis of upper airway microbiota may have significant implications in the development of chronic lung disease. Here, we compare bacterial communities of matched sinus and lung mucus samples from cystic fibrosis (CF) subjects undergoing endoscopic surgery for treatment of chronic sinusitis. Mucus from one maxillary sinus and expectorated sputum were collected from twelve patients. 16S rRNA gene sequencing was then performed on sample pairs to compare the structure and function of CF airway microbiota. Bacterial diversity was comparable between airway sites, though sinuses harbored a higher prevalence of dominant microorganisms. Ordination analyses revealed that samples clustered more consistently by airway niche rather than by individual. Finally, predicted metagenomes suggested that anaerobiosis was enriched in the lung. Our findings indicate that while the lung may be seeded by individual sinus pathogens, airway microenvironments harbor distinct bacterial communities that should be considered in selecting antimicrobial therapies."	?
29522532	sputum 16S	PloS one	Fluctuations in airway bacterial communities associated with clinical states and disease stages in cystic fibrosis.	"Bacteria that infect the airways of persons with cystic fibrosis (CF) include a group of well-described opportunistic pathogens as well as numerous, mainly obligate or facultative anaerobic species typically not reported by standard sputum culture. We sequenced the V3-V5 hypervariable region of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene in DNA derived from 631 sputum specimens collected from 111 CF patients over 10 years. We describe fluctuations in the relative abundances of typical CF pathogens, as well as anaerobic species, in relation to changes in patients' clinical state and lung disease stage. Both bacterial community diversity and the relative abundance of anaerobes increased during exacerbation of symptoms (prior to antibiotic treatment), although this trend was not observed uniformly across disease stages. Community diversity and the relative abundance of anaerobic species decreased during antibiotic treatment. These results support current hypotheses regarding the role of anaerobes in CF pulmonary exacerbations and lung disease progression."	631
20412865	sputum 16S	Anaerobe	The genus Prevotella in cystic fibrosis airways.	"Airway disease resulting from chronic bacterial colonization and consequential inflammation is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with Cystic Fibrosis (CF). Although traditionally considered to be due to only a few pathogens, recent re-examination of CF airway microbiology has revealed that polymicrobial communities that include many obligate anaerobes colonize lower airways. The purpose of this study was to examine Prevotella species in CF airways by quantitative culture and phenotypic characterization. Expectorated sputum was transferred to an anaerobic environment immediately following collection and examined by quantitative microbiology using a variety of culture media. Isolates were identified as facultative or obligate anaerobes and the later group was identified by 16S rRNA sequencing. Prevotella spp. represented the majority of isolates. Twelve different species of Prevotella were recovered from 16 patients with three species representing 65% of isolates. Multiple Prevotella species were often isolated from the same sputum sample. These isolates were biochemically characterized using Rapid ID 32A kits (BioMérieux), and for their ability to produce autoinducer-2 and beta-lactamases. Considerable phenotypic variability between isolates of the same species was observed. The quantity and composition of Prevotella species within a patients' airway microbiome varied over time. Our results suggest that the diversity and dynamics of Prevotella in CF airways may contribute to airway disease."	16
29037527	sputum 16S	Chest	CORK Study in Cystic Fibrosis: Sustained Improvements in Ultra-Low-Dose Chest CT Scores After CFTR Modulation With Ivacaftor.	"Ivacaftor produces significant clinical benefit in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) with the G551D mutation. Prevalence of this mutation at the Cork CF Centre is 23%. This study assessed the impact of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator modulation on multiple modalities of patient assessment. Thirty-three patients with the G551D mutation were assessed at baseline and prospectively every 3 months for 1 year after initiation of ivacaftor. Change in ultra-low-dose chest CT scans, blood inflammatory mediators, and the sputum microbiome were assessed. Significant improvements in FEV, BMI, and sweat chloride levels were observed post-ivacaftor treatment. Improvement in ultra-low-dose CT imaging scores were observed after treatment, with significant mean reductions in total Bhalla score (P < .01), peribronchial thickening (P = .035), and extent of mucous plugging (P < .001). Reductions in circulating inflammatory markers, including interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, and IL-8 were demonstrated. There was a 30% reduction in the relative abundance of Pseudomonas species and an increase in the relative abundance of bacteria associated with more stable community structures. Posttreatment community richness increased significantly (P = .03). Early and sustained improvements on ultra-low-dose CT scores suggest it may be a useful method of evaluating treatment response. It paralleled improvement in symptoms, circulating inflammatory markers, and changes in the lung microbiota."	33
26588216	sputum 16S	PLoS pathogens	Global Analysis of the Fungal Microbiome in Cystic Fibrosis Patients Reveals Loss of Function of the Transcriptional Repressor Nrg1 as a Mechanism of Pathogen Adaptation.	"The microbiome shapes diverse facets of human biology and disease, with the importance of fungi only beginning to be appreciated. Microbial communities infiltrate diverse anatomical sites as with the respiratory tract of healthy humans and those with diseases such as cystic fibrosis, where chronic colonization and infection lead to clinical decline. Although fungi are frequently recovered from cystic fibrosis patient sputum samples and have been associated with deterioration of lung function, understanding of species and population dynamics remains in its infancy. Here, we coupled high-throughput sequencing of the ribosomal RNA internal transcribed spacer 1 (ITS1) with phenotypic and genotypic analyses of fungi from 89 sputum samples from 28 cystic fibrosis patients. Fungal communities defined by sequencing were concordant with those defined by culture-based analyses of 1,603 isolates from the same samples. Different patients harbored distinct fungal communities. There were detectable trends, however, including colonization with Candida and Aspergillus species, which was not perturbed by clinical exacerbation or treatment. We identified considerable inter- and intra-species phenotypic variation in traits important for host adaptation, including antifungal drug resistance and morphogenesis. While variation in drug resistance was largely between species, striking variation in morphogenesis emerged within Candida species. Filamentation was uncoupled from inducing cues in 28 Candida isolates recovered from six patients. The filamentous isolates were resistant to the filamentation-repressive effects of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, implicating inter-kingdom interactions as the selective force. Genome sequencing revealed that all but one of the filamentous isolates harbored mutations in the transcriptional repressor NRG1; such mutations were necessary and sufficient for the filamentous phenotype. Six independent nrg1 mutations arose in Candida isolates from different patients, providing a poignant example of parallel evolution. Together, this combined clinical-genomic approach provides a high-resolution portrait of the fungal microbiome of cystic fibrosis patient lungs and identifies a genetic basis of pathogen adaptation."	89
24597615	sputum 16S	Annals of the American Thoracic Society	Three clinically distinct chronic pediatric airway infections share a common core microbiota.	"DNA-based microbiological studies are moving beyond studying healthy human microbiota to investigate diverse infectious diseases, including chronic respiratory infections, such as those in the airways of people with cystic fibrosis (CF) and non-CF bronchiectasis. The species identified in the respiratory secretion microbiota from such patients can be classified into those that are common and abundant among similar subjects (core) versus those that are infrequent and rare (satellite). This categorization provides a vital foundation for investigating disease pathogenesis and improving therapy. However, whether the core microbiota of people with different respiratory diseases, which are traditionally associated with specific culturable pathogens, are unique or shared with other chronic infections of the lower airways is not well studied. Little is also known about how these chronic infection microbiota change from childhood to adulthood. We sought to compare the core microbiota in respiratory specimens from children and adults with different chronic lung infections. We used bacterial 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing, phylogenetic analysis, and ecological statistical tools to compare the core microbiota in respiratory samples from three cohorts of symptomatic children with clinically distinct airway diseases (protracted bacterial bronchitis, bronchiectasis, CF), and from four healthy children. We then compared the core pediatric respiratory microbiota with those in samples from adults with bronchiectasis and CF. All three pediatric disease cohorts shared strikingly similar core respiratory microbiota that differed from adult CF and bronchiectasis microbiota. The most common species in pediatric disease cohort samples were also detected in those from healthy children. The adult CF and bronchiectasis microbiota also differed from each other, suggesting common early infection airway microbiota that diverge by adulthood. The shared core pediatric microbiota included both traditional pathogens and many species not routinely identified by standard culture. Our results indicate that these clinically distinct chronic airway infections share common early core microbiota, which are likely shaped by natural aspiration and impaired clearance of the same airway microbes, but that disease-specific characteristics select for divergent microbiota by adulthood. Longitudinal and interventional studies will be required to define the relationships between microbiota, treatments, and disease progression."	?
38916354	sputum 16S	Microbiology spectrum	Cystic fibrosis pathogens persist in the upper respiratory tract following initiation of elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor therapy.	"Elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor (ETI) therapy has revolutionized the treatment of cystic fibrosis (CF) for most affected individuals but the effects of treatment on sinus microbiota are still unknown. Changes to the airway microbiota in CF are associated with disease state and alterations to the bacterial community after ETI initiation may require changes to clinical management regimens. We collected sinus swab samples from the middle meatus in an observational study of 38 adults with CF and chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) from 2017 to 2021 and captured the initiation of ETI therapy. We performed 16S and custom amplicon sequencing to characterize the sinus microbiota pre- and post-ETI. Real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) was performed to estimate total bacterial abundance. Sinus samples from people with CF (pwCF) clustered into three community types, dependent on the dominant bacterial organism: a -dominant, -dominant, and mixed dominance cluster. Shannon's diversity index was low and not significantly altered post-ETI. Total bacterial load was not significantly lowered post-ETI.  spp. abundance was significantly reduced post-ETI, but eradication was not observed.  spp. became the dominant organism in most individuals post-ETI and we showed the presence of methicillin-resistant  (MRSA) in the sinus both pre- and post-ETI. We also demonstrated that the sinus microbiome is predictive of the presence of  spp.,  spp., and  spp. in the sputum.  spp. and  spp., including MRSA, persist in the sinuses of pwCF after ETI therapy, indicating that these pathogens will continue to be important in CF airway disease management in the era of highly effective modulator therapies (HEMT).IMPORTANCEHighly effective modulator therapies (HEMT), such as elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor (ETI), for cystic fibrosis (CF) have revolutionized patient care and quality of life for most affected individuals. The effects of these therapies on the microbiota of the airways are still unclear, though work has already been published on changes to microbiota in the sputum. Our study presents evidence for reduced relative abundance of  spp. in the sinuses following ETI therapy. We also show that  spp. becomes the dominant organism in the sinus communities of most individuals in this cohort after ETI therapy. We identified methicillin-resistant  (MRSA) in the sinus microbiota both pre- and post-therapy. These findings demonstrate that pathogen monitoring and treatment will remain a vital part of airway disease management for people with cystic fibrosis (pwCF) in the era of HEMT."	38
30135091	sputum 16S	Thorax	Sputum microbiota is predictive of long-term clinical outcomes in young adults with cystic fibrosis.	"Complex polymicrobial communities infect cystic fibrosis (CF) lower airways. Generally, communities with low diversity, dominated by classical CF pathogens, associate with worsened patient status at sample collection. However, it is not known if the microbiome can predict future outcomes. We sought to determine if the microbiome could be adapted as a biomarker for patient prognostication. We retrospectively assessed prospectively collected sputum from a cohort of 104 individuals aged 18-22 to determine factors associated with progression to early end-stage lung disease (eESLD; death/transplantation <25 years) and rapid pulmonary function decline (>-3%/year FEV over the ensuing 5 years). Illumina MiSeq paired-end sequencing of the V3-V4 region of the 16S rRNA was used to define the airway microbiome. Based on the primary outcome analysed, 17 individuals (16%) subsequently progressed to eESLD. They were more likely to have sputum with low alpha diversity, dominated by specific pathogens including . Communities with abundant  were observed to be protective. Microbial communities clustered together by baseline lung disease stage and subsequent progression to eESLD. Multivariable analysis identified baseline lung function and alpha diversity as independent predictors of eESLD. For the secondary outcomes, 58 and 47 patients were classified as rapid progressors based on absolute and relative definitions of lung function decline, respectively. Patients with low alpha diversity were similarly more likely to be classified as experiencing rapid lung function decline over the ensuing 5 years when adjusted for baseline lung function. We observed that the diversity of microbial communities in CF airways is predictive of progression to eESLD and disproportionate lung function decline and may therefore represent a novel biomarker."	104
22427533	sputum 16S	American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine	The lung tissue microbiome in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.	"Based on surface brushings and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, Hilty and coworkers demonstrated microbiomes in the human lung characteristic of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which have now been confirmed by others. To extend these findings to human lung tissue samples. DNA from lung tissue samples was obtained from nonsmokers (n = 8); smokers without COPD (n = 8); patients with very severe COPD (Global Initiative for COPD [GOLD] 4) (n = 8); and patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) (n = 8). The latter served as a positive control, with sterile water as a negative control. All bacterial community analyses were based on polymerase chain reaction amplifying 16S rRNA gene fragments. Total bacterial populations were measured by quantitative polymerase chain reaction and bacterial community composition was assessed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis and pyrotag sequencing. Total bacterial populations within lung tissue were small (20-1,252 bacterial cells per 1,000 human cells) but greater in all four sample groups versus the negative control group (P < 0.001). Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis and sequencing distinguished three distinct bacterial community compositions: one common to the nonsmoker and smoker groups, a second to the GOLD 4 group, and the third to the CF-positive control group. Pyrotag sequencing identified greater than 1,400 unique bacterial sequences and showed an increase in the Firmicutes phylum in GOLD 4 patients versus all other groups (P < 0.003) attributable to an increase in the Lactobacillus genus (P < 0.0007). There is a detectable bacterial community within human lung tissue that changes in patients with very severe COPD."	8
35113780	sputum 16S	Journal of medical microbiology	"{'i': ['Porphyromonas pasteri', 'Prevotella nanceiensis'], '#text': 'and  in the sputum microbiota are associated with increased decline in lung function in individuals with cystic fibrosis.'}"	"Although anaerobic bacteria exist in abundance in cystic fibrosis (CF) airways, their role in disease progression is poorly understood. We hypothesized that the presence and relative abundance of the most prevalent, live, anaerobic bacteria in sputum of adults with CF were associated with adverse clinical outcomes. This is the first study to prospectively investigate viable anaerobic bacteria present in the sputum microbiota and their relationship with long-term outcomes in adults with CF. We performed 16S rRNA analysis using a viability quantitative PCR technique on sputum samples obtained from a prospective cohort of 70 adults with CF and collected clinical data over an 8 year follow-up period. We examined the associations of the ten most abundant obligate anaerobic bacteria present in the sputum with annual rate of FEV change. The presence of  and  were associated with a greater annual rate of FEV change; -52.3 ml yr (95 % CI-87.7;-16.9), -67.9 ml yr (95 % CI-115.6;-20.1), respectively. Similarly, the relative abundance of these live organisms were associated with a greater annual rate of FEV decline of -3.7 ml yr (95 % CI: -6.1 to -1.3, =0.003) and -5.3 ml yr (95 % CI: -8.7 to -1.9, =0.002) for each log increment of abundance, respectively. The presence and relative abundance of certain anaerobes in the sputum of adults with CF are associated with a greater rate of long-term lung function decline. The pathogenicity of anaerobic bacteria in the CF airways should be confirmed with further longitudinal prospective studies with a larger cohort of participants."	70
27925791	sputum 16S	Annals of the American Thoracic Society	Reemergence of Lower-Airway Microbiota in Lung Transplant Patients with Cystic Fibrosis.	"Chronic lung infections are a hallmark of cystic fibrosis; they are responsible for progressive airway destruction and ultimately lead to respiratory death or the requirement for life-saving bilateral lung transplant. Furthermore, recurrent isolation of airway pathogens such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa in the allograft after transplant is associated with adverse outcomes, including bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome and acute infections. Little information exists on the impact of bilateral lung transplant on the lower-airway microbiota. To compare, at a microbiome and single-pathogen level (P. aeruginosa), the bacterial communities in pre- and post-transplant samples. We retrospectively accessed our biobank of sputum samples and sputum-derived bacterial pathogens for patients who had matched samples, including those who were clinically stable before transplant, those who had a pulmonary exacerbation before transplant, and those who had pulmonary exacerbation after transplant. We used 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequencing to characterize the lower-airway microbiome of 14 adult transplant patients with cystic fibrosis. Genotyping and phenotyping of P. aeruginosa isolates from 12 of these patients with matched isolates was performed. Although α-diversity (richness and evenness) of patient microbiomes was similar before and after transplant, β- diversity (core microbiome composition) measures stratified patients evenly into two groups with more similar and more dissimilar communities. P. aeruginosa strains isolated before transplant were found to reemerge in 11 of 12 patients; however, phenotypic variation was observed. These findings indicate that recolonization by P. aeruginosa after transplant is almost always strain specific, suggesting a within-host source. The polymicrobial colonization of the airways after transplant does not always reflect the pretransplant sputum microbiota."	14
35667975	sputum 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Changes in airway bacterial communities occur soon after initiation of antibiotic treatment of pulmonary exacerbations in cystic fibrosis.	"Chronic polymicrobial airway infections are a hallmark of cystic fibrosis (CF) lung disease. Antibiotic therapy is a primary treatment of CF pulmonary exacerbations (PEx); however, the impact of episodic antibiotic treatment on airway bacterial communities has not been well described. We analyzed sputum samples from adults with CF obtained immediately before and during antibiotic treatment of PEx. Sequencing of the V4 region of the bacterial 16S ribosomal RNA gene was used to assess changes in bacterial community structure during antibiotic treatment. The peak impact of antibiotic treatment was observed by day four or five of treatment. These findings advance our understanding of bacterial community dynamics during antibiotic treatment of PEx and complement recent and ongoing studies evaluating the optimal duration of antibiotic therapy for PEx."	?
28951476	sputum 16S	mBio	"Individual Patterns of Complexity in Cystic Fibrosis Lung Microbiota, Including Predator Bacteria, over a 1-Year Period."	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) lung microbiota composition has recently been redefined by the application of next-generation sequencing (NGS) tools, identifying, among others, previously undescribed anaerobic and uncultivable bacteria. In the present study, we monitored the fluctuations of this ecosystem in 15 CF patients during a 1-year follow-up period, describing for the first time, as far as we know, the presence of predator bacteria in the CF lung microbiome. In addition, a new computational model was developed to ascertain the hypothetical ecological repercussions of a prey-predator interaction in CF lung microbial communities. Fifteen adult CF patients, stratified according to their pulmonary function into mild ( = 5), moderate ( = 9), and severe ( = 1) disease, were recruited at the CF unit of the Ramón y Cajal University Hospital (Madrid, Spain). Each patient contributed three or four induced sputum samples during a 1-year follow-up period. Lung microbiota composition was determined by both cultivation and NGS techniques and was compared with the patients' clinical variables. Results revealed a particular microbiota composition for each patient that was maintained during the study period, although some fluctuations were detected without any clinical correlation. For the first time,  and  predator bacteria were shown in CF lung microbiota and reduced-genome bacterial parasites of the phylum  were also consistently detected. The newly designed computational model allows us to hypothesize that inoculation of predators into the pulmonary microbiome might contribute to the control of chronic colonization by CF pathogens in early colonization stages. The application of NGS to sequential samples of CF patients demonstrated the complexity of the organisms present in the lung (156 species) and the constancy of basic individual colonization patterns, although some differences between samples from the same patient were observed, probably related to sampling bias.  and  predator bacteria were found for the first time by NGS as part of the CF lung microbiota, although their ecological significance needs to be clarified. The newly designed computational model allows us to hypothesize that inoculation of predators into the lung microbiome can eradicate CF pathogens in early stages of the process. Our data strongly suggest that lower respiratory microbiome fluctuations are not necessarily related to the patient's clinical status."	?
25526264	sputum 16S	PloS one	The microbial community of the cystic fibrosis airway is disrupted in early life.	"Molecular techniques have uncovered vast numbers of organisms in the cystic fibrosis (CF) airways, the clinical significance of which is yet to be determined. The aim of this study was to describe and compare the microbial communities of the lower airway of clinically stable children with CF and children without CF. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid and paired oropharyngeal swabs from clinically stable children with CF (n = 13) and BAL from children without CF (n = 9) were collected. DNA was isolated, the 16S rRNA regions amplified, fragmented, biotinylated and hybridised to a 16S rRNA microarray. Patient medical and demographic information was recorded and standard microbiological culture was performed. A diverse bacterial community was detected in the lower airways of children with CF and children without CF. The airway microbiome of clinically stable children with CF and children without CF were significantly different as measured by Shannon's Diversity Indices (p = 0.001; t test) and Principle coordinate analysis (p = 0.01; Adonis test). Overall the CF airway microbial community was more variable and had a less even distribution than the microbial community in the airways of children without CF. We highlighted several bacteria of interest, particularly Prevotella veroralis, CW040 and a Corynebacterium, which were of significantly differential abundance between the CF and non-CF lower airways. Both Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Streptococcus pneumoniae culture abundance were found to be associated with CF airway microbial community structure. The CF upper and lower airways were found to have a broadly similar microbial milieu. The microbial communities in the lower airways of stable children with CF and children without CF show significant differences in overall diversity. These discrepancies indicate a disruption of the airway microflora occurring early in life in children with CF."	13
27741283	sputum 16S	PloS one	Data Mining of Lung Microbiota in Cystic Fibrosis Patients.	"The major therapeutic strategy used to treat exacerbated cystic fibrosis (CF) is antibiotic treatment. As this approach easily generates antibiotic-resistant strains of opportunistic bacteria, optimized antibiotic therapies are required to effectively control chronic and recurrent bacterial infections in CF patients. A promising future for the proper use of antibiotics is the management of lung microbiota. However, the impact of antibiotic treatments on CF microbiota and vice versa is not fully understood. This study analyzed 718 sputum samples from 18 previous studies to identify differences between CF and uninfected lung microbiota and to evaluate the effects of antibiotic treatments on exacerbated CF microbiota. A reference-based OTU (operational taxonomic unit) picking method was used to combine analyses of data generated using different protocols and platforms. Findings show that CF microbiota had greater richness and lower diversity in the community structure than uninfected control (NIC) microbiota. Specifically, CF microbiota showed higher levels of opportunistic bacteria and dramatically lower levels of commensal bacteria. Antibiotic treatment affected exacerbated CF microbiota notably but only transiently during the treatment period. Limited decrease of the dominant opportunistic bacteria and a dramatic decrease of commensal bacteria were observed during the antibiotic treatment for CF exacerbation. Simultaneously, low abundance opportunistic bacteria were thriving after the antibiotic treatment. The inefficiency of the current antibiotic treatment against major opportunistic bacteria and the detrimental effects on commensal bacteria indicate that the current empiric antibiotic treatment on CF exacerbation should be reevaluated and optimized."	718
27930727	sputum 16S	PloS one	Airway Microbiota in Bronchoalveolar Lavage Fluid from Clinically Well Infants with Cystic Fibrosis.	"Upper airway cultures guide the identification and treatment of lung pathogens in infants with cystic fibrosis (CF); however, this may not fully reflect the spectrum of bacteria present in the lower airway. Our objectives were to characterize the airway microbiota using bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) from asymptomatic CF infants during the first year of life and to investigate the relationship between BALF microbiota, standard culture and clinical characteristics. BALF, nasopharyngeal (NP) culture and infant pulmonary function testing data were collected at 6 months and one year of age during periods of clinical stability from infants diagnosed with CF by newborn screening. BALF was analyzed for total bacterial load by qPCR and for bacterial community composition by 16S ribosomal RNA sequencing. Clinical characteristics and standard BALF and NP culture results were recorded over five years of longitudinal follow-up. 12 BALF samples were collected from 8 infants with CF. Streptococcus, Burkholderia, Prevotella, Haemophilus, Porphyromonas, and Veillonella had the highest median relative abundance in infant CF BALF. Two of the 3 infants with repeat BALF had changes in their microbial communities over six months (Morisita-Horn diversity index 0.36, 0.38). Although there was excellent percent agreement between standard NP and BALF cultures, these techniques did not routinely detect all bacteria identified by sequencing. BALF in asymptomatic CF infants contains complex microbiota, often missed by traditional culture of airway secretions. Anaerobic bacteria are commonly found in the lower airways of CF infants."	12
25459563	sputum 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Implications of multiple freeze-thawing on respiratory samples for culture-independent analyses.	"Best practice when performing culture-independent microbiological analysis of sputum samples involves their rapid freezing and storage at -80°C. However, accessing biobanked collections can mean that material has been passed through repeated freeze-thaw cycles. The aim of this study was to determine the impact of these cycles on microbial community profiles. Sputum was collected from eight adults with cystic fibrosis, and each sample was subjected to six freeze-thaw cycles. Following each cycle, an aliquot was removed and treated with propidium monoazide (PMA) prior to DNA extraction and 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing. The impact of freeze-thaw cycles was greatest on rare members of the microbiota, with variation beyond that detected with within-sample repeat analysis observed after three cycles. Four or more freeze thaw cycles result in a significant distortion of microbiota profiles from CF sputum."	8
30796252	sputum 16S	Scientific reports	Changes in microbiome diversity following beta-lactam antibiotic treatment are associated with therapeutic versus subtherapeutic antibiotic exposure in cystic fibrosis.	"In persons with cystic fibrosis (CF), decreased airway microbial diversity is associated with lower lung function. Conflicting data exist on the impact of short-term antibiotics for treatment of acute pulmonary exacerbations. However, whether differences in antibiotic exposure impacts airway microbiome changes has not been studied. We hypothesized that subtherapeutic beta-lactam antibiotic exposure, determined by the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics (PK/PD) after intravenous (IV) antibiotic administration, would be associated with different patterns of changes in CF airway microbial diversity. Eligible children were enrolled when well; study assessments were performed around the time of pulmonary exacerbation. Plasma drug concentrations and bacterial minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) were used to determine therapeutic versus subtherapeutic beta-lactam antibiotic exposure. Respiratory samples were collected from children, and extracted bacterial DNA was amplified for the V4 region of the 16S rRNA gene. Twenty children experienced 31 APEs during the study; 45% (n = 14) of antibiotic courses were deemed therapeutic. Those in the therapeutic group had more significant decreases in alpha diversity at end of treatment and post-recovery compared to baseline than those in the subtherapeutic group. Therapeutic and subtherapeutic beta-lactam use is associated with different patterns of changes in CF airway microbial diversity following antibiotic administration."	20
29127619	sputum 16S	Folia microbiologica	Changes in the lung bacteriome in relation to antipseudomonal therapy in children with cystic fibrosis.	"The lung in cystic fibrosis (CF) is home to numerous pathogens that shorten the lives of patients. The aim of the present study was to assess changes in the lung bacteriome following antibiotic therapy targeting Pseudomonas aeruginosa in children with CF. The study included nine children (9-18 years) with CF who were treated for their chronic or intermittent positivity for Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The bacteriomes were determined in 16 pairs of sputa collected at the beginning and at the end of a course of intravenous antibiotic therapy via deep sequencing of the variable region 4 of the 16S rRNA gene, and the total bacterial load and selected specific pathogens were assessed using quantitative real-time PCR. The effect of antipseudomonal antibiotics was observable as a profound decrease in the total 16S rDNA load (p = 0.001) as well as in a broad range of individual taxa including Staphylococcus aureus (p = 0.03) and several members of the Streptococcus mitis group (S. oralis, S. mitis, and S. infantis) (p = 0.003). Improvements in forced expiratory volume (FEV) were associated with an increase in Granulicatella sp. (p = 0.004), whereas a negative association was noted between the total bacterial load and white blood cell count (p = 0.007). In conclusion, the data show how microbial communities differ in reaction to antipseudomonal treatment, suggesting that certain rare species may be associated with clinical parameters. Our work also demonstrates the utility of absolute quantification of bacterial load in addition to the 16S rDNA profiling."	16
27180018	sputum 16S	The Lancet. Respiratory medicine	The nasal microbiota in infants with cystic fibrosis in the first year of life: a prospective cohort study.	"Respiratory tract infections and subsequent airway inflammation occur early in the life of infants with cystic fibrosis. However, detailed information about the microbial composition of the respiratory tract in infants with this disorder is scarce. We aimed to undertake longitudinal in-depth characterisation of the upper respiratory tract microbiota in infants with cystic fibrosis during the first year of life. We did this prospective cohort study at seven cystic fibrosis centres in Switzerland. Between Feb 1, 2011, and May 31, 2014, we enrolled 30 infants with a diagnosis of cystic fibrosis. Microbiota characterisation was done with 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing and oligotyping of nasal swabs collected every 2 weeks from the infants with cystic fibrosis. We compared these data with data for an age-matched cohort of 47 healthy infants. We additionally investigated the effect of antibiotic treatment on the microbiota of infants with cystic fibrosis. Statistical methods included regression analyses with a multivariable multilevel linear model with random effects to correct for clustering on the individual level. We analysed 461 nasal swabs taken from the infants with cystic fibrosis; the cohort of healthy infants comprised 872 samples. The microbiota of infants with cystic fibrosis differed compositionally from that of healthy infants (p=0·001). This difference was also found in exclusively antibiotic-naive samples (p=0·001). The disordering was mainly, but not solely, due to an overall increase in the mean relative abundance of Staphylococcaceae in infants with cystic fibrosis compared with healthy infants (multivariable linear regression model stratified by age and adjusted for season; second month: coefficient 16·2 [95% CI 0·6-31·9]; p=0·04; third month: 17·9 [3·3-32·5]; p=0·02; fourth month: 21·1 [7·8-34·3]; p=0·002). Oligotyping analysis enabled differentiation between Staphylococcus aureus and coagulase-negative Staphylococci. Whereas the analysis showed a decrease in S aureus at and after antibiotic treatment, coagulase-negative Staphylococci increased. Our study describes compositional differences in the microbiota of infants with cystic fibrosis compared with healthy controls, and disordering of the microbiota on antibiotic administration. Besides S aureus, coagulase-negative Staphylococci also contributed to the disordering identified in these infants. These findings are clinically important in view of the crucial role that bacterial pathogens have in the disease progression of cystic fibrosis in early life. Our findings could be used to inform future studies of the effect of antibiotic treatment on the microbiota in infants with cystic fibrosis, and could assist in the prevention of early disease progression in infants with this disorder. Swiss National Science Foundation, Fondation Botnar, the Swiss Society for Cystic Fibrosis, and the Swiss Lung Association Bern."	872
26943329	sputum 16S	PloS one	"Analysis of Lung Microbiota in Bronchoalveolar Lavage, Protected Brush and Sputum Samples from Subjects with Mild-To-Moderate Cystic Fibrosis Lung Disease."	"Individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF) often acquire chronic lung infections that lead to irreversible damage. We sought to examine regional variation in the microbial communities in the lungs of individuals with mild-to-moderate CF lung disease, to examine the relationship between the local microbiota and local damage, and to determine the relationships between microbiota in samples taken directly from the lung and the microbiota in spontaneously expectorated sputum. In this initial study, nine stable, adult CF patients with an FEV1>50% underwent regional sampling of different lobes of the right lung by bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) and protected brush (PB) sampling of mucus plugs. Sputum samples were obtained from six of the nine subjects immediately prior to the procedure. Microbial community analysis was performed on DNA extracted from these samples and the extent of damage in each lobe was quantified from a recent CT scan. The extent of damage observed in regions of the right lung did not correlate with specific microbial genera, levels of community diversity or composition, or bacterial genome copies per ml of BAL fluid. In all subjects, BAL fluid from different regions of the lung contained similar microbial communities. In eight out of nine subjects, PB samples from different regions of the lung were also similar in microbial community composition, and were similar to microbial communities in BAL fluid from the same lobe. Microbial communities in PB samples were more diverse than those in BAL samples, suggesting enrichment of some taxa in mucus plugs. To our knowledge, this study is the first to examine the microbiota in different regions of the CF lung in clinically stable individuals with mild-to-moderate CF-related lung disease."	6
26135861	sputum 16S	Journal of clinical microbiology	Cohort Study of Airway Mycobiome in Adult Cystic Fibrosis Patients: Differences in Community Structure between Fungi and Bacteria Reveal Predominance of Transient Fungal Elements.	"The respiratory mycobiome is an important but understudied component of the human microbiota. Like bacteria, fungi can cause severe lung diseases, but their infection rates are much lower. This study compared the bacterial and fungal communities of sputum samples from a large cohort of 56 adult patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) during nonexacerbation periods and under continuous antibiotic treatment. Molecular fingerprinting based on single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis revealed fundamental differences between bacterial and fungal communities. Both groups of microorganisms were taxonomically classified by identification of gene sequences (16S rRNA and internal transcript spacer), and prevalences of single taxa were determined for the entire cohort. Major bacterial pathogens were frequently observed, whereas fungi of known pathogenicity in CF were detected only in low numbers. Fungal species richness increased without reaching a constant level (saturation), whereas bacterial richness showed saturation after 50 patients were analyzed. In contrast to bacteria, a large number of fungal species were observed together with high fluctuations over time and among patients. These findings demonstrated that the mycobiome was dominated by transient species, which strongly suggested that the main driving force was their presence in inhaled air rather than colonization. Considering the high exposure of human airways to fungal spores, we concluded that fungi have low colonization abilities in CF, and colonization by pathogenic fungal species may be considered a rare event. A comprehensive understanding of the conditions promoting fungal colonization may offer the opportunity to prevent colonization and substantially reduce or even eliminate fungus-related disease progression in CF."	56
22451929	sputum 16S	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Decade-long bacterial community dynamics in cystic fibrosis airways.	"The structure and dynamics of bacterial communities in the airways of persons with cystic fibrosis (CF) remain largely unknown. We characterized the bacterial communities in 126 sputum samples representing serial collections spanning 8-9 y from six age-matched male CF patients. Sputum DNA was analyzed by bar-coded pyrosequencing of the V3-V5 hypervariable region of the 16S rRNA gene, defining 662 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) from >633,000 sequences. Bacterial community diversity decreased significantly over time in patients with typically progressive lung disease but remained relatively stable in patients with a mild lung disease phenotype. Antibiotic use, rather than patient age or lung function, was the primary driver of decreasing diversity. Interpatient variability in community structure exceeded intrapatient variability in serial samples. Antibiotic treatment was associated with pronounced shifts in community structure, but communities showed both short- and long-term resilience after antibiotic perturbation. There was a positive correlation between OTU occurrence and relative abundance, with a small number of persistent OTUs accounting for the greatest abundance. Significant changes in community structure, diversity, or total bacterial density at the time of pulmonary exacerbation were not observed. Despite decreasing community diversity in patients with progressive disease, total bacterial density remained relatively stable over time. These findings show the critical relationship between airway bacterial community structure, disease stage, and clinical state at the time of sample collection. These features are the key parameters with which to assess the complex ecology of the CF airway."	126
26859493	sputum 16S	PloS one	Assessment of the Microbial Constituents of the Home Environment of Individuals with Cystic Fibrosis (CF) and Their Association with Lower Airways Infections.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) airways are colonized by a polymicrobial community of organisms, termed the CF microbiota. We sought to define the microbial constituents of the home environment of individuals with CF and determine if it may serve as a latent reservoir for infection. Six patients with newly identified CF pathogens were included. An investigator collected repeat sputum and multiple environmental samples from their homes. Bacteria were cultured under both aerobic and anaerobic conditions. Morphologically distinct colonies were selected, purified and identified to the genus and species level through 16S rRNA gene sequencing. When concordant organisms were identified in sputum and environment, pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) was performed to determine relatedness. Culture-independent bacterial profiling of each sample was carried out by Illumina sequencing of the V3 region of the 16s RNA gene. New respiratory pathogens prompting investigation included: Mycobacterium abscessus(2), Stenotrophomonas maltophilia(3), Pseudomonas aeruginosa(3), Pseudomonas fluorescens(1), Nocardia spp.(1), and Achromobacter xylosoxidans(1). A median 25 organisms/patient were cultured from sputum. A median 125 organisms/home were cultured from environmental sites. Several organisms commonly found in the CF lung microbiome were identified within the home environments of these patients. Concordant species included members of the following genera: Brevibacterium(1), Microbacterium(1), Staphylococcus(3), Stenotrophomonas(2), Streptococcus(2), Sphingomonas(1), and Pseudomonas(4). PFGE confirmed related strains (one episode each of Sphinogomonas and P. aeruginosa) from the environment and airways were identified in two patients. Culture-independent assessment confirmed that many organisms were not identified using culture-dependent techniques. Members of the CF microbiota can be found as constituents of the home environment in individuals with CF. While the majority of isolates from the home environment were not genetically related to those isolated from the lower airways of individuals with CF suggesting alternate sources of infection were more common, a few genetically related isolates were indeed identified. As such, the home environment may rarely serve as either the source of infection or a persistent reservoir for re-infection after clearance."	6
30956802	sputum 16S	BMJ open respiratory research	"{'i': ['Porphyromonas', 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa'], '#text': ', a potential predictive biomarker of  pulmonary infection in cystic fibrosis.'}"	"pulmonary infections are the primary cause of morbi-mortality in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). In this cohort study, the objective was to identify candidate biomarkers of  infection within the airway microbiota. A 3-year prospective multicentre study (PYOMUCO study) was conducted in Western France and included patients initially  free for at least 1 year. A 16S-targeted metagenomics approach was applied on iterative sputum samples of a first set of patients (n=33). The composition of airway microbiota was compared according to their  status at the end of the follow-up (colonised vs non-colonised), and biomarkers associated with  were screened. In a second step, the distribution of a candidate biomarker according to the two groups of patients was verified by qPCR on a second set of patients (n=52) coming from the same cohort and its load quantified throughout the follow-up. (mainly ) was found to be an enriched phylotype in patients uninfected by  (p<0.001). This result was confirmed by quantitative PCR. Conversely, in patients who became positive,  significantly decreased before  acquisition (p=0.014). Further studies on replication cohorts are needed to validate this potential predictive biomarker, which may be relevant for the follow-up in the early years of patients with CF. The identification of infection candidate biomarkers may offer new strategies for CF precision medicine."	33
22012018	sputum 16S	Journal of clinical microbiology	True microbiota involved in chronic lung infection of cystic fibrosis patients found by culturing and 16S rRNA gene analysis.	"Patients suffering from cystic fibrosis (CF) develop chronic lung infection. In this study, we investigated the microorganisms present in transplanted CF lungs (n = 5) by standard culturing and 16S rRNA gene analysis. A correspondence between culturing and the molecular methods was observed. In conclusion, standard culturing seems reliable for the identification of the dominating pathogens."	5
25853698	sputum 16S	PloS one	Impact of the CFTR-potentiator ivacaftor on airway microbiota in cystic fibrosis patients carrying a G551D mutation.	"Airway microbiota composition has been clearly correlated with many pulmonary diseases, and notably with cystic fibrosis (CF), an autosomal genetic disorder caused by mutation in the CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). Recently, a new molecule, ivacaftor, has been shown to re-establish the functionality of the G551D-mutated CFTR, allowing significant improvement in lung function. The purpose of this study was to follow the evolution of the airway microbiota in CF patients treated with ivacaftor, using quantitative PCR and pyrosequencing of 16S rRNA amplicons, in order to identify quantitative and qualitative changes in bacterial communities. Three G551D children were followed up longitudinally over a mean period of more than one year covering several months before and after initiation of ivacaftor treatment. 129 operational taxonomy units (OTUs), representing 64 genera, were identified. There was no significant difference in total bacterial load before and after treatment. Comparison of global community composition found no significant changes in microbiota. Two OTUs, however, showed contrasting dynamics: after initiation of ivacaftor, the relative abundance of the anaerobe Porphyromonas 1 increased (p<0.01) and that of Streptococcus 1 (S. mitis group) decreased (p<0.05), possibly in relation to the anti-Gram-positive properties of ivacaftor. The anaerobe Prevotella 2 correlated positively with the pulmonary function test FEV-1 (r=0.73, p<0.05). The study confirmed the presumed positive role of anaerobes in lung function. Several airway microbiota components, notably anaerobes (obligate or facultative anaerobes), could be valuable biomarkers of lung function improvement under ivacaftor, and could shed light on the pathophysiology of lung disease in CF patients."	3
25458200	sputum 16S	The Lancet. Respiratory medicine	"The effect of long-term macrolide treatment on respiratory microbiota composition in non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis: an analysis from the randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled BLESS trial."	"Long-term macrolide treatment has proven benefit in inflammatory airways diseases, but whether it leads to changes in the composition of respiratory microbiota is unknown. We aimed to assess whether long-term, low-dose erythromycin treatment changes the composition of respiratory microbiota in people with non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis. Microbiota composition was determined by 16S rRNA gene sequencing of sputum samples from participants in the BLESS trial, a 12-month, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of twice-daily erythromycin ethylsuccinate (400 mg) in adult patients with non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis and at least two infective exacerbations in the preceding year. The primary outcome was within-patient change in respiratory microbiota composition (assessed by Bray-Curtis index) between baseline and week 48, comparing erythromycin with placebo. The BLESS trial is registered with the Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry, number ACTRN12608000460303. The BLESS trial took place between Oct 15, 2008, and Dec 14, 2011. Paired sputum samples were available from 86 randomly assigned patients, 42 in the placebo group and 44 in the erythromycin group. The change in microbiota composition between baseline and week 48 was significantly greater with erythromycin than with placebo (median Bray-Curtis score 0·52 [IQR 0·14-0·78] vs 0·68 [0·46-0·93]; median difference 0·16, 95% CI 0·01-0·33; p=0·03). In patients with baseline airway infection dominated by Pseudomonas aeruginosa, erythromycin did not change microbiota composition significantly. In those with infection dominated by organisms other than P. aeruginosa, erythromycin caused a significant change in microbiota composition (p=0·03 [by analysis of similarity]), representing a reduced relative abundance of Haemophilus influenzae (35·3% [5·5-91·6] vs 6·7% [0·8-74·8]; median difference 12·6%, 95% CI 0·4-28·3; p=0·04; interaction p=0·02) and an increased relative abundance of P aeruginosa (0·02% [0·00-0·33] vs 0·13% [0·01-39·58]; median difference 6·6%, 95% CI 0·1-37·1; p=0·002; interaction p=0·45). Compared with placebo, erythromycin reduced the rate of pulmonary exacerbations over the 48 weeks of the study in patients with P. aeruginosa-dominated infection (median 1 [IQR 0-3] vs 3 [2-5]; median difference -2, 95% CI -4 to -1; p=0·01), but not in those without P. aeruginosa-dominated infection (1 [0-2] vs 1 [0-3]; median difference 0, -1 to 0; p=0·41; interaction p=0·04). Long-term erythromycin treatment changes the composition of respiratory microbiota in patients with bronchiectasis. In patients without P. aeruginosa airway infection, erythromycin did not significantly reduce exacerbations and promoted displacement of H. influenzae by more macrolide-tolerant pathogens including P. aeruginosa. These findings argue for a cautious approach to chronic macrolide use in patients without P. aeruginosa airway infection. Mater Adult Respiratory Research Trust Fund."	86
14503795	sputum 16S	International journal of medical microbiology : IJMM	Molecular typing of the bacterial flora in sputum of cystic fibrosis patients.	"Despite recent advances in therapy, lower airway infections remain the major cause of morbidity and mortality in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. Bacterial colonisation of the lower airways in CF is limited to a few bacterial species, commonly Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Haemophilus influenzae. Burkholderia cepacia colonisation is much rarer, but it has been thought to be associated with more advanced lung disease and increased mortality. A rapid characterisation of the bacterial flora in sputum of CF patients is of great importance for proper treatment. The aim of this study was to establish bacterial profiles and to identify pathogenic bacteria in respiratory specimens by means of molecular methods including temporal temperature gradient gel electrophoresis (TTGE) and DNA sequencing of PCR amplicons derived from 16S rDNA variable V3 and V6 regions. Sputa of 13 CF patients (7 males/6 females, age 19-59 years) collected at the Stockholm CF centre were analysed. TTGE revealed the presence of complex bacterial profiles in all samples. The V3 and V6 PCR amplicons were cloned and sequenced by real-time DNA Pyrosequencing. DNA from Staphylococcus aureus, Haemophilus influenzae, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, respectively, was identified together with sequences from normal oral cavity flora. The results were in reasonable agreement with those obtained by conventional bacterial culture, considering that only known CF pathogens are included in routine reports. However, the methodology seems too elaborate to be introduced into daily routine"	13
31355848	sputum 16S	The Journal of antimicrobial chemotherapy	Pseudomonas aeruginosa populations in the cystic fibrosis lung lose susceptibility to newly applied β-lactams within 3 days.	"Chronic pulmonary infections by Pseudomonas aeruginosa require frequent intravenous antibiotic treatment in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. Emergence of antimicrobial resistance is common in these patients, which to date has been investigated at long-term intervals only. To investigate under close to real-time conditions the dynamics of the response by P. aeruginosa to a single course of antibiotic therapy and the potentially associated rapid spread of antimicrobial resistance, as well as the impact on the airway microbiome. We investigated a cohort of adult CF patients that were treated with a single course of antimicrobial combination therapy. Using daily sampling during treatment, we quantified the expression of resistance by P. aeruginosa (median of six isolates per daily sample, 347 isolates in total), measured bacterial load by P. aeruginosa-specific quantitative PCR and characterized the airway microbiome with a 16S rRNA-based approach. WGS was performed to reconstruct intrapatient strain phylogenies. In two patients, we found rapid and large increases in resistance to meropenem and ceftazidime. Phylogenetic reconstruction of strain relationships revealed that resistance shifts are probably due to de novo evolution and/or the selection of resistant subpopulations. We observed high interindividual variation in the reduction of bacterial load, microbiome composition and antibiotic resistance. We show that CF-associated P. aeruginosa populations can quickly respond to antibiotic therapy and that responses are patient specific. Thus, resistance evolution can be a direct consequence of treatment, and drug efficacy can be lost much faster than usually assumed. The consideration of these patient-specific rapid resistance shifts can help to improve treatment of CF-associated infections, for example by deeper sampling of bacteria for diagnostics, repeated monitoring of pathogen susceptibility and switching between drugs."	?
25834733	sputum 16S	Microbiome	The daily dynamics of cystic fibrosis airway microbiota during clinical stability and at exacerbation.	"Recent work indicates that the airways of persons with cystic fibrosis (CF) typically harbor complex bacterial communities. However, the day-to-day stability of these communities is unknown. Further, airway community dynamics during the days corresponding to the onset of symptoms of respiratory exacerbation have not been studied. Using 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing of 95 daily sputum specimens collected from four adults with CF, we observed varying degrees of day-to-day stability in airway bacterial community structures during periods of clinical stability. Differences were observed between study subjects with respect to the degree of community changes at the onset of exacerbation. Decreases in the relative abundance of dominant taxa were observed in three subjects at exacerbation. We observed no relationship between total bacterial load and clinical status and detected no viruses by multiplex PCR. CF airway microbial communities are relatively stable during periods of clinical stability. Changes in microbial community structure are associated with some, but not all, pulmonary exacerbations, supporting previous observations suggesting that distinct types of exacerbations occur in CF. Decreased abundance of species that are dominant at baseline suggests a role for less abundant taxa in some exacerbations. Daily sampling revealed patterns of change in microbial community structures that may prove useful in the prediction and management of CF pulmonary exacerbations."	95
24592925	sputum 16S	Annals of the American Thoracic Society	A novel microbiota stratification system predicts future exacerbations in bronchiectasis.	"Although airway microbiota composition correlates with clinical measures in non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis, these data are unlikely to provide useful prognostic information at the individual patient level. A system enabling microbiota data to be applied clinically would represent a substantial translational advance. This study aims to determine whether stratification of patients according to the predominant microbiota taxon can provide improved clinical insight compared with standard diagnostics. The presence of bacterial respiratory pathogens was assessed in induced sputum from 107 adult patients by culture, quantitative PCR, and, in 96 samples, by ribosomal gene pyrosequencing. Prospective analysis was performed on samples from 42 of these patients. Microbiological data were correlated with concurrent clinical measures and subsequent outcomes. Microbiota analysis defined three groups: Pseudomonas aeruginosa dominated (n = 26), Haemophilus influenzae dominated (n = 34), and other taxa dominated (n = 36). Patients with P. aeruginosa- and H. influenzae-dominated communities had significantly worse lung function, higher serum levels of C-reactive protein (CRP), and higher sputum levels of IL-8 and IL-1β. Predominance of P. aeruginosa, followed by Veillonella species, was the best predictor of future exacerbation frequency, with H. influenzae-dominated communities having significantly fewer episodes. Detection of P. aeruginosa was associated with poor lung function and exacerbation frequency, irrespective of analytical strategy. Quantitative PCR revealed significant correlations between H. influenzae levels and sputum IL-8, IL-1β, and serum CRP. Genus richness was negatively correlated with 24-hour sputum weight, age, serum CRP, sputum IL-1β, and IL-8. Stratification of patients with non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis on the basis of predominant bacterial taxa is more clinically informative than either conventional culture or quantitative PCR-based analysis. Further investigation is now required to assess the mechanistic basis of these associations."	96
33898610	sputum 16S	ERJ open research	Lumacaftor/ivacaftor changes the lung microbiome and metabolome in cystic fibrosis patients.	"Targeted cystic fibrosis (CF) therapy with lumacaftor/ivacaftor partly restores chloride channel function and improves epithelial fluid transport in the airways. Consequently, changes may occur in the microbiome, which is adapted to CF lungs. To investigate the effects of lumacaftor/ivacaftor on respiratory microbial composition and microbial metabolic activity by repeatedly sampling the lower respiratory tract. This was a single-centre longitudinal observational cohort study in adult CF patients with a homozygous Phe508del mutation. Lung function measurements and microbial cultures of sputum were performed as part of routine care. An oral and nasal wash, and a breath sample, were collected before and every 3 months after starting therapy, for up to 12 months. Twenty patients were included in this study. Amplicon 16S RNA and metagenomics sequencing revealed that  was most abundant in sputum and seemed to decrease after 6 months of treatment, although this did not reach statistical significance after correction for multiple testing. Two types of untargeted metabolomics analyses in sputum showed a change in metabolic composition between 3 and 9 months that almost returned to baseline levels after 12 months of treatment. The volatile metabolic composition of breath was significantly different after 3 months and remained different from baseline until 12 months follow-up. After starting CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) modulating treatment in CF patients with a homozygous Phe508del mutation, a temporary and moderate change in the lung microbiome is observed, which is mainly characterised by a reduction in the relative abundance of ."	?
38317784	sputum 16S	OTO open	Evaluating Sinus Microbiology by Transplant Status in Persons With Cystic Fibrosis: A Matched Cohort Study.	"Sinus disease is prevalent in persons with cystic fibrosis (PwCF) and may be a reservoir of airway infection in postlung transplant (pTx) patients. The microbial composition of cystic fibrosis sinuses and its associations with chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) is relatively unexplored. We aimed to examine the sinus and lower airway microbiome and their associations with CRS in PwCF and pTxPwCF. Prospective single-centre study. A total of 31 sex and age (±2 years) matched PwCF and pTxPwCF. Demographic and clinical data along with sinus swabs and sputum were collected. CRS was assessed using Sinonasal Outcome Test-22 (SNOT-22) (patient reported outcome) and Lund-McKay (computed tomography sinus) scores. Samples underwent MiSeq Illumina sequencing of the universal 16S ribosomal RNA gene. A total of 31 PwCF (15 pTxPwCF) were included. Aggregate airways microbiome composition was dominated by  (46%),  (14%),  (11%),  (10%), and  (6%). α-diversity was significantly lower in post-Tx samples across both sputum and sinus samples ( = .005). β-diversity was significantly different between sputum ( = .004), but not sinus ( = .75) samples by transplant status. While there was a trend in higher β-diversity associated with lower SNOT-22 score at time of first visit, this did not reach significance ( = .05). Sinus and airway microbiomes differed in PwCF and pTxPwCF, but the prevalent organisms remained consistent. Elucidating the relationship of the microbiome with clinical status to better understand when to intervene accordingly is needed to optimize sinus disease management in PwCF."	31
33652802	sputum 16S	Microorganisms	The Lung Microbiome in Young Children with Cystic Fibrosis: A Prospective Cohort Study.	"The cystic fibrosis (CF) lung harbours a diverse microbiome and reduced diversity in the CF lung has been associated with advancing age, increased inflammation and poorer lung function. Data suggest that the window for intervention is early in CF, yet there is a paucity of studies on the lung microbiome in children with CF. The objective of this study was to thoroughly characterise the lower airway microbiome in pre-school children with CF. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) samples were collected annually from children attending the three clinical centres. Clinical and demographic data were collated on all subjects alongside BAL inflammatory markers. 16S rRNA gene sequencing was performed on the Illumina MiSeq platform. Bioinformatics and data analysis were performed using Qiime and R project software. Data on 292 sequenced BALs from 101 children with CF and 51 without CF show the CF lung microbiome, while broadly similar to that in non-CF children, is distinct. Alpha diversity between the two cohorts was indistinguishable at this early age. The CF diagnosis explained only 1.1% of the variation between the cohort microbiomes. However, several key genera were significantly differentially abundant between the groups. While the non-CF lung microbiome diversity increased with age, diversity reduced in CF with age.  and  were more abundant with age, while genera such as  and  were less abundant with age. There was a negative correlation between alpha diversity and interleukin-8 and neutrophil elastase in the CF population. Neither current flucloxacillin or azithromycin prophylaxis, nor previous oral or IV antibiotic exposure, was correlated with microbiome diversity. Consecutive annual BAL samples over 5 years from a subgroup of children demonstrated diverse patterns of development in the first years of life."	292
25036925	sputum 16S	The ISME journal	Predominant pathogen competition and core microbiota divergence in chronic airway infection.	"Chronic bacterial lung infections associated with non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis represent a substantial and growing health-care burden. Where Pseudomonas aeruginosa is the numerically dominant species within these infections, prognosis is significantly worse. However, in many individuals, Haemophilus influenzae predominates, a scenario associated with less severe disease. The mechanisms that determine which pathogen is most abundant are not known. We hypothesised that the distribution of H. influenzae and P. aeruginosa would be consistent with strong interspecific competition effects. Further, we hypothesised that where P. aeruginosa is predominant, it is associated with a distinct 'accessory microbiota' that reflects a significant interaction between this pathogen and the wider bacterial community. To test these hypotheses, we analysed 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing data generated previously from 60 adult bronchiectasis patients, whose airway microbiota was dominated by either P. aeruginosa or H. influenzae. The relative abundances of the two dominant species in their respective groups were not significantly different, and when present in the opposite pathogen group the two species were found to be in very low abundance, if at all. These findings are consistent with strong competition effects, moving towards competitive exclusion. Ordination analysis indicated that the distribution of the core microbiota associated with each pathogen, readjusted after removal of the dominant species, was significantly divergent (analysis of similarity (ANOSIM), R=0.07, P=0.019). Taken together, these findings suggest that both interspecific competition and also direct and/or indirect interactions between the predominant species and the wider bacterial community may contribute to the predominance of P. aeruginosa in a subset of bronchiectasis lung infections."	60
32636336	sputum 16S	mSystems	Parallel Analysis of Cystic Fibrosis Sputum and Saliva Reveals Overlapping Communities and an Opportunity for Sample Decontamination.	"Culture-independent studies of the cystic fibrosis (CF) airway microbiome typically rely on expectorated sputum to assess the microbial makeup of lower airways. These studies have revealed rich bacterial communities. There is often considerable overlap between taxa observed in sputum and those observed in saliva, raising questions about the reliability of expectorated sputum as a sample representing lower airway microbiota. These concerns prompted us to compare pairs of sputum and saliva samples from 10 persons with CF. Using 16S rRNA gene sequencing and droplet digital PCR (ddPCR), we analyzed 37 pairs of sputum and saliva samples, each collected from the same person on the same day. We developed an  postsequencing decontamination procedure to remove from sputum the fraction of DNA reads estimated to have been contributed by saliva during expectoration. We demonstrate that while there was often sizeable overlap in community membership between sample types, expectorated sputum typically contains a higher bacterial load and a less diverse community compared to saliva. The differences in diversity between sputum and saliva were more pronounced in advanced disease stage, owing to increased relative abundance of the dominant taxa in sputum. Our effort to model saliva contamination of sputum  revealed generally minor effects on community structure after removal of contaminating reads. Despite considerable overlap in taxa observed between expectorated sputum and saliva samples, the impact of saliva contamination on measures of lower airway bacterial community composition in CF using expectorated sputum appears to be minimal. Cystic fibrosis is an inherited disease characterized by chronic respiratory tract infection and progressive lung disease. Studies of cystic fibrosis lung microbiology often rely on expectorated sputum to reflect the microbiota present in the lower airways. Passage of sputum through the oropharynx during collection, however, contributes microbes present in saliva to the sample, which could confound interpretation of results. Using culture-independent DNA sequencing-based analyses, we characterized the bacterial communities in pairs of expectorated sputum and saliva samples to generate a model for ""decontaminating"" sputum  Our results demonstrate that salivary contamination of expectorated sputum does not have a large effect on most sputum samples and that observations of high bacterial diversity likely accurately reflect taxa present in cystic fibrosis lower airways."	37
32695090	sputum 16S	Frontiers in microbiology	The Respiratory Microbiome in Cystic Fibrosis: Compartment Patterns and Clinical Relationships in Early Stage Disease.	"We compared the bacterial microbiomes lodged in the bronchial tree, oropharynx and nose of patients with early stage cystic fibrosis (CF) not using chronic antibiotics, determining their relationships with lung function and exacerbation frequency. CF patients were enrolled in a cohort study during stability and were checked regularly over the following 9 months. Upper respiratory samples (sputum [S], oropharyngeal swab [OP] and nasal washing [N]) were collected at the first visit and every 3 months. 16S rRNA gene amplification and sequencing was performed and analyzed with QIIME. Seventeen CF patients were enrolled (16.6 SD 9.6 years). Alpha-diversity of bacterial communities between samples was significantly higher in S than in OP (Shannon index median 4.6 [IQR: 4.1-4.9] vs. 3.7 [IQR: 3-1-4.1],  = 0.003/Chao 1 richness estimator median 97.75 [IQR: 85.1-110.9] vs. 43.9 [IQR: 31.7-59.9],  = 0.003) and beta-diversity analysis also showed significant differences in the microbial composition of both respiratory compartments (Adonis test of Bray Curtis dissimilarity matrix,  = 0.001). Dominant taxa were found at baseline in five patients (29.4%), who showed lower forced expiratory volume in the first second (FEV1%, mean 74.8 [SD 19] vs. 97.2 [SD 17.8],  = 0.035, Student  test). The  genus had low RAs in most samples (median 0.26% [IQR 0.01-0.69%]), but patients with RA > 0.26% of Staphylococcus in bronchial secretions suffered more exacerbations during follow-up (median 2 [IQR 1-2.25] vs. 0 [0-1],  = 0.026. Mann-Whitney U test), due to  in more than a half of the cases, microorganism that often persists as bronchial colonized in these patients (9/10 [90%] vs. 2/7 [28.6%],  = 0.034, Fisher's exact test). In conclusion, the bronchial microbiome had significantly higher diversity than the microbial flora lodged in the oropharynx in early stage CF. Although the RA of the  genus was low in bronchial secretions and did not reach a dominance pattern, slight overrepresentations of this genus was associated with higher exacerbation frequencies in these patients."	7
37546739	sputum 16S	bioRxiv : the preprint server for biology	Microbial community organization designates distinct pulmonary exacerbation types and predicts treatment outcome in cystic fibrosis.	"Polymicrobial infection of the airways is a hallmark of obstructive lung diseases such as cystic fibrosis (CF), non-CF bronchiectasis, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Intermittent pulmonary exacerbations (PEx) in these conditions are associated with lung function decline and higher mortality rates. An understanding of the microbial underpinnings of PEx is challenged by high inter-patient variability in airway microbial community profiles. We analyzed 880 near-daily CF sputum samples and developed non-standard microbiome descriptors to model community reorganization prior and during 18 PEx. We identified two communal microbial regimes with opposing ecology and dynamics. Whereas pathogen-governed dysbiosis showed hierarchical community organization and reduced diversity, anaerobic bloom dysbiosis displayed stochasticity and increased diversity. Microbiome organization modulated the relevance of pathogens and a simulation of antimicrobial treatment predicted better efficacy for hierarchically organized microbiota. This causal link between PEx, microbiome organization, and treatment success advances the development of personalized dysbiosis management in CF and, potentially, other obstructive lung diseases."	880
33925519	sputum 16S	Journal of personalized medicine	Individual and Group Response of Treatment with Ivacaftor on Airway and Gut Microbiota in People with CF and a S1251N Mutation.	"Ivacaftor has been shown to restore the functionality of the S1251N (also known as c.3752G>A) mutated CFTR, which may cause alterations in both airway and gut physiology and micro-environment, resulting in a change of microbiota in these organs. The aim of the present study was to analyze the effects of ivacaftor on the microbial community composition of both airway and gut in subjects with CF carrying one S1251N mutation, using a 16S rRNA gene-based sequencing approach. In 16 subjects with CF, repetitive samples from airways and gut were collected just before, and 2 months after, and, for 8 patients, also 9 and 12 months after, start of ivacaftor. 16S rRNA based sequencing identified 344 operational taxonomical units (OTUs) in a total of 139 samples (35 nasopharyngeal, 39 oropharyngeal, 29 sputum, and 36 fecal samples). Ivacaftor significantly enhanced bacterial diversity and overall microbiota composition in the gut ( < 0.01). There were no significant changes in the overall microbial composition and alpha diversity in upper and lower airways of these patients after ivacaftor treatment. Treatment with ivacaftor induces changes in gut microbiota whereas airway microbiota do not change significantly over time."	35
38853065	sputum 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Metabolomics analysis of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid predicts unique features of the lower airway in pediatric cystic fibrosis.	"Progressive, obstructive lung disease resulting from chronic infection and inflammation is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in persons with cystic fibrosis (PWCF). Metabolomics and next -generation sequencing (NGS) of airway secretions can allow for better understanding of cystic fibrosis (CF) pathophysiology. In this study, global metabolomic profiling on bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) obtained from pediatric PWCF and disease controls (DCs) was performed and compared to lower airway microbiota, inflammation, and lung function. BALF was collected from children undergoing flexible bronchoscopies for clinical indications. Metabolomic profiling was performed using a platform developed by Metabolon Inc. Total bacterial load (TBL) was measured using quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), and bacterial communities were characterized using 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) sequencing. Random Forest Analysis (RFA), principal component analysis (PCA), and hierarchical clustering analysis (HCA) were performed. One hundred ninety-five BALF samples were analyzed, 142 (73 %) from PWCF. Most metabolites (425/665) and summed categories (7/9) were significantly increased in PWCF. PCA of the metabolomic data revealed CF BALF exhibited more dispersed clustering compared to DC BALF. Higher metabolite concentrations correlated with increased inflammation, increased abundance of Staphylococcus, and decreased lung function. The lower airway metabolome of PWCF was defined by a complex expansion of metabolomic activity. These findings could be attributed to heightened inflammation in PWCF and aspects of the CF airway polymicrobial ecology. CF-specific metabolomic features are associated with the unique underlying biology of the CF airway."	195
33898611	sputum 16S	ERJ open research	Cystic fibrosis airway microbiota associated with outcomes of nontuberculous mycobacterial infection.	"Pulmonary infections with nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) are increasingly prevalent in people with cystic fibrosis (CF). Clinical outcomes following NTM acquisition are highly variable, ranging from transient self-resolving infection to NTM pulmonary disease associated with significant morbidity. Relationships between airway microbiota and variability of NTM outcomes in CF are unclear. To identify features of CF airway microbiota associated with outcomes of NTM infection. 188 sputum samples, obtained from 24 subjects with CF, each with three or more samples collected from 3.5 years prior to, and up to 6 months following incident NTM infection, were selected from a sample repository. Sputum DNA underwent bacterial 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Airway microbiota were compared based on the primary outcome, a diagnosis of NTM pulmonary disease, using Wilcoxon rank-sum testing, autoregressive integrated moving average modelling and network analyses. Subjects with and without NTM pulmonary disease were similar in clinical characteristics, including age and lung function at the time of incident NTM infection. Time-series analyses of sputum samples prior to incident NTM infection identified positive correlations between , , ,  and  with diagnosis of NTM pulmonary disease and with persistent NTM infection. Network analyses identified differences in clustering of taxa between subjects with and without NTM pulmonary disease, and between subjects with persistent  transient NTM infection. CF airway microbiota prior to incident NTM infection are associated with subsequent outcomes, including diagnosis of NTM pulmonary disease, and persistence of NTM infection. Associations between airway microbiota and NTM outcomes represent targets for validation as predictive markers and for future therapies."	188
30238064	sputum 16S	Heliyon	Antibiotic multidrug resistance in the cystic fibrosis airway microbiome is associated with decreased diversity.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is associated with significant morbidity and early mortality due to recurrent acute and chronic lung infections. The chronic use of multiple antibiotics increases the possibility of multidrug resistance (MDR). Antibiotic susceptibility determined by culture-based techniques may not fully represent the resistance profile. The study objective was to detect additional antibiotic resistance using molecular methods and relate the presence of MDR to airway microbiome diversity and pulmonary function. Bacterial DNA was extracted from sputum samples and amplified for the V4 region of the 16S rRNA gene. An qPCR array was used to detect antibiotic resistance genes. Clinical culture results and pulmonary function were also noted for each encounter. Six study participants contributed samples from 19 encounters. Those samples with MDR (n = 7) had significantly lower diversity measured by inverse Simpson's index than those without (n = 12) (2.193 ± 0.427 vs 6.023 ± 1.564, p = 0.035). Differential abundance showed that samples with MDR had more  (p = 0.002) and Alcaligenaceae_unclassified (p = 0.002). Pulmonary function was also decreased when MDR was present (FEV, 51 ± 22.9 vs 77 ± 26.7, p = 0.054; FVC, 64.5 ± 22.7 vs 91.6 ± 27.7, p = 0.047). The presence of MDR within the CF airway microbiome was associated with decreased microbial diversity, the presence of , and decreased pulmonary function."	19
32514485	sputum 16S	Heliyon	Airway microbial diversity is decreased in young children with cystic fibrosis compared to healthy controls but improved with CFTR modulation.	"Culture-independent next generation sequencing has identified diverse microbial communities within the cystic fibrosis (CF) airway. The study objective was to test for differences in the upper airway microbiome of children with CF and healthy controls and age-related differences in children with CF. Oropharyngeal swabs and clinical data were obtained from 25 children with CF and 50 healthy controls aged ≤6 years. Bacterial DNA was amplified and sequenced for the V4 region of 16S rRNA marker-gene. Alpha diversity was measured using operational taxonomic units (OTUs), Shannon diversity, and the inverse Simpson's index. Beta diversity was measured using Morisita-Horn and Bray-Curtis and Jaccard distances. General linear models were used for comparison of alpha diversity measures between groups to account for differences in demographics and exposures. Mixed effects general linear models were used for longitudinal comparisons 1) between children with CF of different ages and 2) between children with CF receiving CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) modulators, children with CF not receiving CFTR modulators, and healthy controls to adjust for repeated measures per subject. Children with CF were more likely to have received antibiotics in the prior year than healthy controls (92% vs 24%, p < 0.001). Controlling age, race, ethnicity, length of breastfeeding, and having siblings, children with CF had a lower richness than healthy controls: OTUs 62.1 vs 83, p = 0.022; and trended toward lower diversity: Shannon 2.09 vs 2.35, p = 0.057; inverse Simpson 5.7 vs 6.92, p = 0.118. , three Rothia OTUs, and two  OTUs were more abundant in CF children versus healthy controls (all p < 0.05). Bray-Curtis and Jaccard distances, which reflect overall microbial community composition, were also significantly different (both p = 0.001). In longitudinally collected samples from children with CF, Morisita-Horn trended toward more similarity in those aged 0-2 years compared to those aged 3-6 years (p = 0.070). In children >2 years of age, there was a significant trend in increasing alpha diversity measures between children with CF not receiving CFTR modulators, children with CF receiving CFTR modulators, and healthy controls: OTUs 63.7 vs 74.7 vs 97.6, p < 0.001; Shannon 2.11 vs 2.34 vs 2.56, p < 0.001; inverse Simpson 5.78 vs 7.23 vs 7.96, p < 0.001. Children with CF have lower bacterial diversity and different composition of organisms compared with healthy controls. This appears to start in early childhood, is possibly related to the use of antibiotics, and may be partially corrected with the use of CFTR modulators."	25
25408892	sputum 16S	Microbiome	Characterization and quantification of the fungal microbiome in serial samples from individuals with cystic fibrosis.	"Human-associated microbial communities include fungi, but we understand little about which fungal species are present, their relative and absolute abundances, and how antimicrobial therapy impacts fungal communities. The disease cystic fibrosis (CF) often involves chronic airway colonization by bacteria and fungi, and these infections cause irreversible lung damage. Fungi are detected more frequently in CF sputum samples upon initiation of antimicrobial therapy, and several studies have implicated the detection of fungi in sputum with worse outcomes. Thus, a more complete understanding of fungi in CF is required. We characterized the fungi and bacteria in expectorated sputa from six CF subjects. Samples were collected upon admission for systemic antibacterial therapy and upon the completion of treatment and analyzed using a pyrosequencing-based analysis of fungal internal transcribed spacer 1 (ITS1) and bacterial 16S rDNA sequences. A mixture of Candida species and Malassezia dominated the mycobiome in all samples (74%-99% of fungal reads). There was not a striking trend correlating fungal and bacterial richness, and richness showed a decline after antibiotic therapy particularly for the bacteria. The fungal communities within a sputum sample resembled other samples from that subject despite the aggressive antibacterial therapy. Quantitative PCR analysis of fungal 18S rDNA sequences to assess fungal burden showed variation in fungal density in sputum before and after antibacterial therapy but no consistent directional trend. Analysis of Candida ITS1 sequences amplified from sputum or pure culture-derived genomic DNA from individual Candida species found little (<0.5%) or no variation in ITS1 sequences within or between strains, thereby validating this locus for the purpose of Candida species identification. We also report the enhancement of the publically available Visualization and Analysis of Microbial Population Structures (VAMPS) tool for the analysis of fungal communities in clinical samples. Fungi are present in CF respiratory sputum. In CF, the use of intravenous antibiotic therapy often does not profoundly impact bacterial community structure, and we observed a similar stability in fungal species composition. Further studies are required to predict the effects of antibacterials on fungal burden in CF and fungal community stability in non-CF populations."	6
27624135	sputum 16S	Clinical chemistry	Clinical Next Generation Sequencing Outperforms Standard Microbiological Culture for Characterizing Polymicrobial Samples.	"Humans suffer from infections caused by single species or more complex polymicrobial communities. Identification of infectious bacteria commonly employs microbiological culture, which depends upon the in vitro propagation and isolation of viable organisms. In contrast, detection of bacterial DNA using next generation sequencing (NGS) allows culture-independent microbial profiling, potentially providing important new insights into the microbiota in clinical specimens. NGS 16S rRNA gene sequencing (NGS16S) was compared with culture using (a) synthetic polymicrobial samples for which the identity and abundance of organisms present were precisely defined and (b) primary clinical specimens. Complex mixtures of at least 20 organisms were well resolved by NGS16S with excellent reproducibility. In mixed bacterial suspensions (10 total genomes), we observed linear detection of a target organism over a 4-log concentration range (500-3 × 10 genomes). NGS16S analysis more accurately recapitulated the known composition of synthetic samples than standard microbiological culture using nonselective media, which distorted the relative abundance of organisms and frequently failed to identify low-abundance pathogens. However, extended quantitative culture using selective media for each of the component species recovered the expected organisms at the proper abundance, validating NGS16S results. In an analysis of sputa from cystic fibrosis patients, NGS16S identified more clinically relevant pathogens than standard culture. Biases in standard, nonselective microbiological culture lead to a distorted characterization of polymicrobial mixtures. NGS16S demonstrates enhanced reproducibility, quantification, and classification accuracy compared with standard culture, providing a more comprehensive, accurate, and culture-free analysis of clinical specimens."	?
31304176	sputum 16S	ERJ open research	Community analysis and co-occurrence patterns in airway microbial communities during health and disease.	"Ecological relationships between bacteria are important when considering variation in bacterial communities in humans, with such variation playing an important role in both health and disease. Using high-throughput sequence data of the 16S rRNA marker-gene, we analysed the prevalence of taxa in the airways of a number of health- and disease-associated cohorts and determined the main drivers of community variance and bacterial co-occurrence. A number of facultative and obligately anaerobic bacterial taxa are commonly associated with the upper airways, forming the main ""core"" microbiota,  spp.,  spp.,  spp.,  spp. and  spp. Opportunistic pathogenic bacteria associated with chronic airways disease, such as  spp. () spp. ( complex) and  spp. () demonstrated poor correlation with other members of their respective communities (ρ<0.5; p>0.005), indicating probable independent acquisition and colonisation. Furthermore, our findings suggest that intra-genus variation between health and disease may affect community assemblies. Improved understanding of how bacteria assemble in time and space during health and disease will enable the future development of tailored treatment according to the patient's own signature microbiota, potentially providing benefit to patients suffering from airway diseases characterised by chronic infection."	?
38811046	sputum 16S	The European respiratory journal	Airway IL-1β is related to disease severity and mucociliary function in bronchiectasis.	"The inflammasome is a key regulatory complex of the inflammatory response leading to IL-1β release and activation. IL-1β amplifies inflammatory responses and induces mucus secretion and hyperconcentration in other diseases. The role of IL-1β in bronchiectasis has not been investigated. To characterize the role of airway IL-1β in bronchiectasis including the association with mucus properties, ciliary function, airway inflammation, microbiome and disease severity. Stable bronchiectasis patients were enrolled in an international cohort study (n=269). IL-1β was measured in sputum supernatant. A validation cohort also had sputum rheology and hydration measured (n=53). For analysis, patients were stratified according to the median value of IL-1β in the population (High  Low) to compare disease severity, airway infection, microbiome (16S rRNA sequencing), inflammation and caspase-1 activity. Primary human nasal epithelial cells grown in air-liquid interface culture were used to study IL-1β effect on cilia function. Patients with high sputum IL-1β had more severe disease, increased caspase-1 activity and increased Th1, Th2 and neutrophil inflammatory response compared with patients with low IL-1β. The active-dominant form of IL-1β was associated with increased disease severity. High IL-1β was related to higher relative abundance of Proteobacteria in the microbiome and increased mucus solid content and viscoelastic properties. Chronic IL-1β treatment reduced the functionality of cilia and tight junctions of epithelial cells in-vitro. A subset of stable bronchiectasis patients show increased airway IL-1β, suggesting pulmonary inflammasome activation is linked with more severe disease, airway infection, mucus dehydration and epithelial dysfunction."	53
37414422	sputum 16S	The European respiratory journal	"Longitudinal effects of elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor on sputum viscoelastic properties, airway infection and inflammation in patients with cystic fibrosis."	"Recent studies demonstrated that the triple combination cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) modulator therapy elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor (ETI) improves lung function and reduces pulmonary exacerbations in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients with at least one  allele. However, effects of ETI on downstream consequences of CFTR dysfunction,  abnormal viscoelastic properties of airway mucus, chronic airway infection and inflammation have not been studied. The aim of this study was to determine the longitudinal effects of ETI on airway mucus rheology, microbiome and inflammation in CF patients with one or two  alleles aged ≥12 years throughout the first 12 months of therapy. In this prospective observational study, we assessed sputum rheology, the microbiome, inflammation markers and proteome before and 1, 3 and 12 months after initiation of ETI. In total, 79 patients with CF and at least one  allele and 10 healthy controls were enrolled in this study. ETI improved the elastic modulus and viscous modulus of CF sputum at 3 and 12 months after initiation (all p<0.01). Furthermore, ETI decreased the relative abundance of  in CF sputum at 3 months and increased the microbiome α-diversity at all time points In addition, ETI reduced interleukin-8 at 3 months (p<0.05) and free neutrophil elastase activity at all time points (all p<0.001), and shifted the CF sputum proteome towards healthy. Our data demonstrate that restoration of CFTR function by ETI improves sputum viscoelastic properties, chronic airway infection and inflammation in CF patients with at least one  allele over the first 12 months of therapy; however, levels close to healthy were not reached."	79
34949574	sputum 16S	BMJ open respiratory research	Comparison of the airway microbiota in children with chronic suppurative lung disease.	"The airway microbiota is important in chronic suppurative lung diseases, such as primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD) and cystic fibrosis (CF). This comparison has not previously been described but is important because difference between the two diseases may relate to the differing prognoses and lead to pathological insights and potentially, new treatments. To compare the longitudinal development of the airway microbiota in children with PCD to that of CF and relate this to age and clinical status. Sixty-two age-matched children (age range 0.5-17 years) with PCD or CF (n=31 in each group) were recruited prospectively and followed for 1.1 years. Throat swabs or sputum as well as clinical information were collected at routine clinical appointments. 16S rRNA gene sequencing was performed. The microbiota was highly individual and more diverse in PCD and differed in community composition when compared with CF. While  was the most abundant genus in both conditions,  was more abundant in CF with  more abundant in PCD (P=0.0005). In PCD only, an inverse relationship was seen in the relative abundance of  and  with age. Bacterial community composition differs between children with PCD and those with CF.  is more prevalent in CF and  in PCD, at least until infection with  supervenes. Interactions between organisms, particularly members of ,  and  genera appear important. Study of the interactions between these organisms may lead to new therapies or risk stratification."	62
29146601	sputum 16S	The European respiratory journal	Airway microbiota across age and disease spectrum in cystic fibrosis.	"Our objectives were to characterise the microbiota in cystic fibrosis (CF) bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), and determine its relationship to inflammation and disease status.BALF from paediatric and adult CF patients and paediatric disease controls undergoing clinically indicated bronchoscopy was analysed for total bacterial load and for microbiota by 16S rDNA sequencing.We examined 191 BALF samples (146 CF and 45 disease controls) from 13 CF centres. In CF patients aged <2 years, nontraditional taxa (,  and ) constituted ∼50% of the microbiota, whereas in CF patients aged ≥6 years, traditional CF taxa (,  and ) predominated. Sequencing detected a dominant taxon not traditionally associated with CF ( or ) in 20% of CF BALF and identified bacteria in 24% of culture-negative BALF. Microbial diversity and relative abundance of ,  and  were inversely associated with airway inflammation. Microbiota communities were distinct in CF compared with disease controls, but did not differ based on pulmonary exacerbation status in CF.The CF microbiota detected in BALF differs with age. In CF patients aged <2 years,  predominates, whereas classic CF pathogens predominate in most older children and adults."	191
38485151	sputum 16S	The European respiratory journal	The longitudinal microbial and metabolic landscape of infant cystic fibrosis: the gut-lung axis.	"In cystic fibrosis, gastrointestinal dysfunction and lower airway infection occur early and are independently associated with poorer outcomes in childhood. This study aimed to define the relationship between the microbiota at each niche during the first 2 years of life, its association with growth and airway inflammation, and explanatory features in the metabolome. 67 bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), 62 plasma and 105 stool samples were collected from 39 infants with cystic fibrosis between 0 and 24 months who were treated with prophylactic antibiotics. 16S rRNA amplicon and shotgun metagenomic sequencing were performed on BALF and stool samples, respectively; metabolomic analyses were performed on all sample types. Sequencing data from healthy age-matched infants were used as controls. Bacterial diversity increased over the first 2 years in both BALF and stool, and microbial maturation was delayed in comparison to healthy controls from the RESONANCE cohort. Correlations between their respective abundance in both sites suggest stool may serve as a noninvasive alternative for detecting BALF  and . Multisite metabolomic analyses revealed age- and growth-related changes, associations with neutrophilic airway inflammation, and a set of core systemic metabolites. BALF  abundance was correlated with altered stool microbiome composition and systemic metabolite alterations, highlighting a complex gut-plasma-lung interplay and new targets with therapeutic potential. Exploration of the gut-lung microbiome and metabolome reveals diverse multisite interactions in cystic fibrosis that emerge in early life. Gut-lung metabolomic links with airway inflammation and  abundance warrant further investigation for clinical utility, particularly in non-expectorating patients."	67
30760325	sputum 16S	Microbiome	Neutrophilic proteolysis in the cystic fibrosis lung correlates with a pathogenic microbiome.	"Studies of the cystic fibrosis (CF) lung microbiome have consistently shown that lung function decline is associated with decreased microbial diversity due to the dominance of opportunistic pathogens. However, how this phenomenon is reflected in the metabolites and chemical environment of lung secretions remains poorly understood. Here we investigated the microbial and molecular composition of CF sputum samples using 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing and untargeted tandem mass spectrometry to determine their interrelationships and associations with clinical measures of disease severity. The CF metabolome was found to exist in two states: one from patients with more severe disease that had higher molecular diversity and more Pseudomonas aeruginosa and the other from patients with better lung function having lower metabolite diversity and fewer pathogenic bacteria. The two molecular states were differentiated by the abundance and diversity of peptides and amino acids. Patients with severe disease and more pathogenic bacteria had higher levels of peptides. Analysis of the carboxyl terminal residues of these peptides indicated that neutrophil elastase and cathepsin G were responsible for their generation, and accordingly, these patients had higher levels of proteolytic activity from these enzymes in their sputum. The CF pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa was correlated with the abundance of amino acids and is known to primarily feed on them in the lung. In cases of severe CF lung disease, proteolysis by host enzymes creates an amino acid-rich environment that P. aeruginosa comes to dominate, which may contribute to the pathogen's persistence by providing its preferred carbon source."	?
28708417	sputum 16S	Annals of the American Thoracic Society	"Association of Antibiotics, Airway Microbiome, and Inflammation in Infants with Cystic Fibrosis."	"The underlying defect in the cystic fibrosis (CF) airway leads to defective mucociliary clearance and impaired bacterial killing, resulting in endobronchial infection and inflammation that contributes to progressive lung disease. Little is known about the respiratory microbiota in the early CF airway and its relationship to inflammation. To examine the bacterial microbiota and inflammatory profiles in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and oropharyngeal secretions in infants with CF. Infants with CF from U.S. and Australian centers were enrolled in a prospective, observational study examining the bacterial microbiota and inflammatory profiles of the respiratory tract. Bacterial diversity and density (load) were measured. Lavage samples were analyzed for inflammatory markers (interleukin 8, unbound neutrophil elastase, and absolute neutrophil count) in the epithelial lining fluid. Thirty-two infants (mean age, 4.7 months) underwent bronchoalveolar lavage and oropharyngeal sampling. Shannon diversity strongly correlated between upper and lower airway samples from a given subject, although community compositions differed. Microbial diversity was lower in younger subjects and in those receiving daily antistaphylococcal antibiotic prophylaxis. In lavage samples, reduced diversity correlated with lower interleukin 8 concentration and absolute neutrophil count. In infants with CF, reduced bacterial diversity in the upper and lower airways was strongly associated with the use of prophylactic antibiotics and younger age at the time of sampling; less diversity in the lower airway correlated with lower inflammation on bronchoalveolar lavage. Our findings suggest modification of the respiratory microbiome in infants with CF may influence airway inflammation."	32
30347804	sputum 16S	International journal of molecular sciences	How to Process Sputum Samples and Extract Bacterial DNA for Microbiota Analysis.	"Different steps and conditions for DNA extraction for microbiota analysis in sputum have been reported in the literature. We aimed at testing both dithiothreitol (DTT) and enzymatic treatments of sputum samples and identifying the most suitable DNA extraction technique for the microbiota analysis of sputum. Sputum treatments with and without DTT were compared in terms of their median levels and the coefficient of variation between replicates of both DNA extraction yield and real-time PCR for the 16S rRNA gene. Treatments with and without lysozyme and lysostaphin were compared in terms of their median levels of real-time PCR for . Two enzyme-based and three beads-based techniques for DNA extraction were compared in terms of their DNA extraction yield, real-time PCR for the 16S rRNA gene and microbiota analysis. DTT treatment decreased the coefficient of variation between replicates of both DNA extraction yield and real-time PCR. Lysostaphin (either 0.18 or 0.36 mg/mL) and lysozyme treatments increased  detection. One enzyme-based kit offered the highest DNA yield and 16S rRNA gene real-time PCR with no significant differences in terms of alpha-diversity indexes. A condition using both DTT and lysostaphin/lysozyme treatments along with an enzymatic kit seems to be preferred for the microbiota analysis of sputum samples."	?
23646159	sputum 16S	PloS one	Inflammation and airway microbiota during cystic fibrosis pulmonary exacerbations.	"Pulmonary exacerbations (PEx), frequently associated with airway infection and inflammation, are the leading cause of morbidity in cystic fibrosis (CF). Molecular microbiologic approaches detect complex microbiota from CF airway samples taken during PEx. The relationship between airway microbiota, inflammation, and lung function during CF PEx is not well understood. To determine the relationships between airway microbiota, inflammation, and lung function in CF subjects treated for PEx. Expectorated sputum and blood were collected and lung function testing performed in CF subjects during early (0-3d.) and late treatment (>7d.) for PEx. Sputum was analyzed by culture, pyrosequencing of 16S rRNA amplicons, and quantitative PCR for total and specific bacteria. Sputum IL-8 and neutrophil elastase (NE); and circulating C-reactive protein (CRP) were measured. Thirty-seven sputum samples were collected from 21 CF subjects. At early treatment, lower diversity was associated with high relative abundance (RA) of Pseudomonas (r = -0.67, p<0.001), decreased FEV(1%) predicted (r = 0.49, p = 0.03) and increased CRP (r = -0.58, p = 0.01). In contrast to Pseudomonas, obligate and facultative anaerobic genera were associated with less inflammation and higher FEV₁. With treatment, Pseudomonas RA and P. aeruginosa by qPCR decreased while anaerobic genera showed marked variability in response. Change in RA of Prevotella was associated with more variability in FEV₁ response to treatment than Pseudomonas or Staphylococcus. Anaerobes identified from sputum by sequencing are associated with less inflammation and higher lung function compared to Pseudomonas at early exacerbation. CF PEx treatment results in variable changes of anaerobic genera suggesting the need for larger studies particularly of patients without traditional CF pathogens."	37
31551401	sputum 16S	mSystems	Molecular and Microbial Microenvironments in Chronically Diseased Lungs Associated with Cystic Fibrosis.	"To visualize the personalized distributions of pathogens and chemical environments, including microbial metabolites, pharmaceuticals, and their metabolic products, within and between human lungs afflicted with cystic fibrosis (CF), we generated three-dimensional (3D) microbiome and metabolome maps of six explanted lungs from three cystic fibrosis patients. These 3D spatial maps revealed that the chemical environments differ between patients and within the lungs of each patient. Although the microbial ecosystems of the patients were defined by the dominant pathogen, their chemical diversity was not. Additionally, the chemical diversity between locales in the lungs of the same individual sometimes exceeded interindividual variation. Thus, the chemistry and microbiome of the explanted lungs appear to be not only personalized but also regiospecific. Previously undescribed analogs of microbial quinolones and antibiotic metabolites were also detected. Furthermore, mapping the chemical and microbial distributions allowed visualization of microbial community interactions, such as increased production of quorum sensing quinolones in locations where  was in contact with  and , consistent with  observations of bacteria isolated from these patients. Visualization of microbe-metabolite associations within a host organ in early-stage CF disease in animal models will help elucidate the complex interplay between the presence of a given microbial structure, antibiotics, metabolism of antibiotics, microbial virulence factors, and host responses. Microbial infections are now recognized to be polymicrobial and personalized in nature. Comprehensive analysis and understanding of the factors underlying the polymicrobial and personalized nature of infections remain limited, especially in the context of the host. By visualizing microbiomes and metabolomes of diseased human lungs, we reveal how different the chemical environments are between hosts that are dominated by the same pathogen and how community interactions shape the chemical environment or vice versa. We highlight that three-dimensional organ mapping methods represent hypothesis-building tools that allow us to design mechanistic studies aimed at addressing microbial responses to other microbes, the host, and pharmaceutical drugs."	?
25974282	sputum 16S	Scientific reports	Lung microbiota across age and disease stage in cystic fibrosis.	"Understanding the significance of bacterial species that colonize and persist in cystic fibrosis (CF) airways requires a detailed examination of bacterial community structure across a broad range of age and disease stage. We used 16S ribosomal RNA sequencing to characterize the lung microbiota in 269 CF patients spanning a 60 year age range, including 76 pediatric samples from patients of age 4-17, and a broad cross-section of disease status to identify features of bacterial community structure and their relationship to disease stage and age. The CF lung microbiota shows significant inter-individual variability in community structure, composition and diversity. The core microbiota consists of five genera - Streptococcus, Prevotella, Rothia, Veillonella and Actinomyces. CF-associated pathogens such as Pseudomonas, Burkholderia, Stenotrophomonas and Achromobacter are less prevalent than core genera, but have a strong tendency to dominate the bacterial community when present. Community diversity and lung function are greatest in patients less than 10 years of age and lower in older age groups, plateauing at approximately age 25. Lower community diversity correlates with worse lung function in a multivariate regression model. Infection by Pseudomonas correlates with age-associated trends in community diversity and lung function."	269
29877714	sputum 16S	Annals of the American Thoracic Society	Culture-Independent Analysis of Pediatric Bronchoalveolar Lavage Specimens.	"The clinical utility of culture-independent testing of pediatric BAL specimens is unknown. In addition, the variability of the pediatric pulmonary microbiome with patient characteristics is not well understood. To compare testing with 16S rRNA gene-based sequencing to conventional cultures of BAL specimens in children Methods: Study subjects were not more than 22 years old and underwent BAL from May 2013 to August 2015 as part of clinical care. DNA extracted from BAL specimens was used for 16S rRNA gene-based analysis, and results were compared with routine cultures from the same samples. Indices of microbial diversity and relative taxon abundances were compared on the basis of subject characteristics (diagnosis and antibiotic use). From 81 participants (male, 51%; median age, 9 yr), 89 samples were collected. The 16S rRNA genes of 77 samples (86.5%) from 70 subjects were successfully analyzed. These 70 subjects included 23 with cystic fibrosis, 19 who were immunocompromised, and 28 who were nonimmunocompromised. Of 68 organisms identified in culture, 16S rRNA gene-based analyses detected corresponding taxa in 66 (97.1%) and also identified potentially clinically significant organisms missed by cultures (e.g., Staphylococcus, Legionella, and Pseudomonas). Taxa that varied significantly with diagnosis and antibiotic use included Veillonella, Corynebacterium, Haemophilus, and Streptococcus. The microbiota of cystic fibrosis samples was less diverse. A ""core"" group of 15 taxa present in all three diagnosis groups was identified. Culture-independent analysis was concordant with routine cultures and showed the potential to detect noncultured pathogens. Although culture-independent testing identified relative changes in organism abundance associated with clinical characteristics, distinct microbiome profiles associated with disease states were not identified."	89
27245316	sputum 16S	Scientific reports	Microbiological profiles of sputum and gastric juice aspirates in Cystic Fibrosis patients.	"Gastro-Oesophageal Reflux (GOR) is a key problem in Cystic Fibrosis (CF), but the relationship between lung and gastric microbiomes is not well understood. We hypothesised that CF gastric and lung microbiomes are related. Gastric and sputum cultures were obtained from fifteen CF patients receiving percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy feeding. Non-CF gastric juice data was obtained through endoscopy from 14 patients without lung disease. Bacterial and fungal isolates were identified by culture. Molecular bacterial profiling used next generation sequencing (NGS) of the 16S rRNA gene. Cultures grew bacteria and/or fungi in all CF gastric juice and sputa and in 9/14 non-CF gastric juices. Pseudomonas aeruginosa(Pa) was present in CF sputum in 11 patients, 4 had identical Pa strains in the stomach. NGS data from non-CF gastric juice samples were significantly more diverse compared to CF samples. NGS showed CF gastric juice had markedly lower abundance of normal gut bacteria; Bacteroides and Faecalibacterium, but increased Pseudomonas compared with non-CF. Multivariate partial least squares discriminant analysis demonstrated similar bacterial profiles of CF sputum and gastric juice samples, which were distinct from non-CF gastric juice. We provide novel evidence suggesting the existence of an aerodigestive microbiome in CF, which may have clinical relevance."	14
25474078	sputum 16S	Annals of the American Thoracic Society	Assessment of airway microbiota and inflammation in cystic fibrosis using multiple sampling methods.	"Oropharyngeal (OP) swabs and induced sputum (IS) are used for airway bacteria surveillance in nonexpectorating children with cystic fibrosis (CF). Molecular analyses of these airway samples detect complex microbial communities. However, the optimal noninvasive sampling approach for microbiota analyses and the clinical relevance of microbiota, particularly its relationship to airway inflammation, is not well characterized. The goals of this study were to compare molecular analyses of concurrently collected saliva, OP swabs, IS, and expectorated sputum (ES) from children with CF and to determine the association between microbiota, lung function, and airway inflammation. Saliva, OP swabs, IS, and ES were collected from 16 children with CF. Spirometry was performed. Respiratory and saliva samples (n = 61) were sequenced for bacterial microbial communities, and total and CF-specific bacterial quantitative PCR assays were performed. Airway samples underwent conventional culture for CF-specific pathogens. Neutrophil elastase, IL-1β, IL-1ra, IL-6, Il-8, TNF-α, and vascular endothelial growth factor were measured in ES and IS. Sequencing results from individual subjects were similar across samples, with greater between-subject than within-subject variation. However, Pseudomonas and Staphylococcus were detected in higher relative abundance from lower airways (ES and IS) compared with paired upper airway samples (OP and saliva). Pseudomonas, Staphylococcus, and Enterobacteriaceae correlated with increased airway inflammation. Divergence between microbiota in upper airway compared with lower airway samples, indicating greater differences between communities, was associated with increased sputum neutrophil elastase. Bacteria detected in IS samples resemble ES samples, whereas OP samples may underrepresent bacteria associated with airway inflammation. Divergence of lower airway communities from upper airway was associated with airway inflammation and may portend disease progression."	16
33268457	sputum 16S	Thorax	Topographic heterogeneity of lung microbiota in end-stage idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis: the Microbiome in Lung Explants-2 (MiLEs-2) study.	"Lung microbiota profiles in patients with early idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) have been associated with disease progression; however, the topographic heterogeneity of lung microbiota and their roles in advanced IPF are unknown. We performed a retrospective, case-control study of explanted lung tissue obtained at the time of lung transplantation or rapid autopsy from patients with IPF and other chronic lung diseases (connective tissue disease-associated interstitial lung disease (CTD-ILD), cystic fibrosis (CF), COPD and donor lungs unsuitable for transplant from Center for Organ Recovery and Education (CORE)). We sampled subpleural tissue and airway-based specimens (bronchial washings and airway tissue) and quantified bacterial load and profiled communities by amplification and sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene. Explants from 62 patients with IPF, 15 patients with CTD-ILD, 20 patients with CF, 20 patients with COPD and 20 CORE patients were included. Airway-based samples had higher bacterial load compared with distal parenchymal tissue. IPF basilar tissue had much lower bacterial load compared with CF and CORE lungs (p<0.001). No microbial community differences were found between parenchymal tissue samples from different IPF lobes. Dirichlet multinomial models revealed an IPF cluster (29%) with distinct composition, high bacterial load and low alpha diversity, exhibiting higher odds for acute exacerbation or death. IPF explants had low biomass in the distal parenchyma of all three lobes with higher bacterial load in the airways. The discovery of a distinct subgroup of patients with IPF with higher bacterial load and worse clinical outcomes supports investigation of personalised medicine approaches for microbiome-targeted interventions."	20
30205496	sputum 16S	Nutrients	Associations between Flavonoid Intakes and Gut Microbiota in a Group of Adults with Cystic Fibrosis.	"Dietary flavonoid intakes can influence gut microbiota (GM), which in turn can affect immune function and host metabolism, both vital considerations in cystic fibrosis (CF) management. In CF, GM may be altered and link to CF respiratory events. This study explored the relationship between flavonoid intakes and GM in free-living adults with CF. Associations between the overall GM variations (unweighted and weighted UniFrac distances between pyrosequencing results of bacterial 16-ss rDNA from frozen faecal samples of sixteen CF adults) and standardised dietary flavonoid intakes (a validated flavonoid-specific food frequency questionnaire) were analysed using adonis tests. Flavonoid intakes that were significant at a false discovery rate (FDR) < 0.3 were subjected to Spearman correlation tests with standardised bacterial relative abundances (FDR < 0.3). Gallocatechin intakes ( = 0.047,  = 0.285) were associated with unweighted UniFrac distances. Intakes of apigenin ( = 0.028,  = 0.227) and kaempferol ( = 0.029,  = 0.227), and % flavonoid intake as flavones ( = 0.013,  = 0.227) and flavonols ( = 0.016,  = 0.227) (both excluding contribution of tea) were associated with weighted UniFrac distances. Among these, gallocatechin correlated with the genus  and family  (). Gallocatechin correlated negatively with class  (). Intakes of some flavonoids may be associated with GM variations with potential consequences for metabolism, immune function, and inflammation, which are important in CF lung disease and co-morbidity management."	16
37404016	sputum 16S	mSphere	Development of the intestinal microbiome in cystic fibrosis in early life.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a heritable disease that causes altered physiology at mucosal sites; these changes result in chronic infections in the lung, significant gastrointestinal complications as well as dysbiosis of the gut microbiome, although the latter has been less well explored. Here, we describe the longitudinal development of the gut microbiome in a cohort of children with CF (cwCF) from birth through early childhood (0-4 years of age) using 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing of stool samples as a surrogate for the gut microbiota. Similar to healthy populations, alpha diversity of the gut microbiome increases significantly with age, but diversity plateaus at ~2 years of age for this CF cohort. Several taxa that have been associated with dysbiosis in CF change with age toward a more healthy-like composition; notable exceptions include , which decreases with age, and , which increases with age. We also examined the relative abundance and prevalence of nine taxa associated with CF lung disease, several of which persist across early life, highlighting the possibility of the lung being seeded directly from the gut early in life. Finally, we applied the Crohn's Dysbiosis Index to each sample, and found that high Crohn's-associated dysbiosis early in life (<2 years) was associated with significantly lower  in samples collected from 2 to 4 years of age. Together, these data comprise an observational study that describes the longitudinal development of the CF-associated gut microbiota and suggest that early markers associated with inflammatory bowel disease may shape the later gut microbiota of cwCF. IMPORTANCE Cystic fibrosis is a heritable disease that disrupts ion transport at mucosal surfaces, causing a buildup of mucus and dysregulation of microbial communities in both the lungs and the intestines. Persons with CF are known to have dysbiotic gut microbial communities, but the development of these communities over time beginning at birth has not been thoroughly studied. Here, we describe an observation study following the development of the gut microbiome of cwCF throughout the first 4 years of life, during the critical window of both gut microbiome and immune development. Our findings indicate the possibility of the gut microbiota as a reservoir of airway pathogens and a surprisingly early indication of a microbiota associated with inflammatory bowel disease."	?
33549519	sputum 16S	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Extended-culture and culture-independent molecular analysis of the airway microbiota in cystic fibrosis following CFTR modulation with ivacaftor.	"Treatment with Ivacaftor provides a significant clinical benefit in people with cystic fibrosis (PWCF) with the class III G551D-CFTR mutation. This study determined the effect of CFTR modulation with ivacaftor on the lung microbiota in PWCF. Using both extended-culture and culture-independent molecular methods, we analysed the lower airway microbiota of 14 PWCF, prior to commencing ivacaftor treatment and at the last available visit within the following year. We determined total bacterial and Pseudomonas aeruginosa densities by both culture and qPCR, assessed ecological parameters and community structure and compared these with biomarkers of inflammation and clinical outcomes. Significant improvement in FEV, BMI, sweat chloride and levels of circulating inflammatory biomarkers were observed POST-ivacaftor treatment. Extended-culture demonstrated a higher density of strict anaerobic bacteria (p = 0.024), richness (p = 1.59*10) and diversity (p = 0.003) POST-treatment. No significant difference in fold change was observed by qPCR for either total bacterial 16S rRNA copy number or P. aeruginosa density for oprL copy number with treatment. Culture-independent (MiSeq) analysis revealed a significant increase in richness (p = 0.03) and a trend towards increased diversity (p = 0.07). Moreover, improvement in lung function, richness and diversity displayed an inverse correlation with the main markers of inflammation (p < 0.05). Following treatment with ivacaftor, significant improvements in clinical parameters were seen. Despite modest changes in overall microbial community composition, there was a shift towards a bacterial ecology associated with less severe CF lung disease. Furthermore, a significant correlation was observed between richness and diversity and levels of circulating inflammatory markers."	14
22911969	sputum 16S	mBio	Serial analysis of the gut and respiratory microbiome in cystic fibrosis in infancy: interaction between intestinal and respiratory tracts and impact of nutritional exposures.	"Pulmonary damage caused by chronic colonization of the cystic fibrosis (CF) lung by microbial communities is the proximal cause of respiratory failure. While there has been an effort to document the microbiome of the CF lung in pediatric and adult patients, little is known regarding the developing microflora in infants. We examined the respiratory and intestinal microbiota development in infants with CF from birth to 21 months. Distinct genera dominated in the gut compared to those in the respiratory tract, yet some bacteria overlapped, demonstrating a core microbiota dominated by Veillonella and Streptococcus. Bacterial diversity increased significantly over time, with evidence of more rapidly acquired diversity in the respiratory tract. There was a high degree of concordance between the bacteria that were increasing or decreasing over time in both compartments; in particular, a significant proportion (14/16 genera) increasing in the gut were also increasing in the respiratory tract. For 7 genera, gut colonization presages their appearance in the respiratory tract. Clustering analysis of respiratory samples indicated profiles of bacteria associated with breast-feeding, and for gut samples, introduction of solid foods even after adjustment for the time at which the sample was collected. Furthermore, changes in diet also result in altered respiratory microflora, suggesting a link between nutrition and development of microbial communities in the respiratory tract. Our findings suggest that nutritional factors and gut colonization patterns are determinants of the microbial development of respiratory tract microbiota in infants with CF and present opportunities for early intervention in CF with altered dietary or probiotic strategies. While efforts have been focused on assessing the microbiome of pediatric and adult cystic fibrosis (CF) patients to understand how chronic colonization by these microbes contributes to pulmonary damage, little is known regarding the earliest development of respiratory and gut microflora in infants with CF. Our findings suggest that colonization of the respiratory tract by microbes is presaged by colonization of the gut and demonstrated a role of nutrition in development of the respiratory microflora. Thus, targeted dietary or probiotic strategies may be an effective means to change the course of the colonization of the CF lung and thereby improve patient outcomes."	?
33784986	sputum 16S	BMC microbiology	Azithromycin and the microbiota of cystic fibrosis sputum.	"Azithromycin is commonly prescribed drug for individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF), with demonstrated benefits in reducing lung function decline, exacerbation occurrence and improving nutrition. As azithromycin has antimicrobial activity against components of the uncultured microbiome and increasingly the CF microbiome is implicated in disease pathogenesis - we postulated azithromycin may act through its manipulation. Herein we sought to determine if the CF microbiome changed following azithromycin use and if clinical benefit observed during azithromycin use associated with baseline community structure. Drawing from a prospectively collected biobank we identified patients with sputum samples prior to, during and after initiating azithromycin and determined the composition of the CF microbial community by sequencing the V3-V4 region of the 16S rRNA gene. We categorized patients as responders if their rate of lung function decline improved after azithromycin initiation. Thirty-eight adults comprised our cohort, nine who had not utilized azithromycin in at least 3 years, and 29 who were completely naïve. We did not observe a major impact in the microbial community structure of CF sputum in the 2 years following azithromycin usage in either alpha or beta-diversity metrics. Seventeen patients (45%) were classified as Responders - demonstrating reduced lung function decline after azithromycin. Responders who were naïve to azithromycin had a modest clustering effect distinguishing them from those who were non-Responders, and had communities enriched with several organisms including Stenotrophomonas, but not Pseudomonas. Azithromycin treatment did not associate with subsequent large changes in the CF microbiome structure. However, we found that baseline community structure associated with subsequent azithromycin response in CF adults."	38
29788934	sputum 16S	BMC pulmonary medicine	The lung microbiome in children with HIV-bronchiectasis: a cross-sectional pilot study.	"Data on the lung microbiome in HIV-infected children is limited. The current study sought to determine the lung microbiome in HIV-associated bronchiectasis and to assess its association with pulmonary exacerbations. A cross-sectional pilot study of 22 children (68% male; mean age 10.8 years) with HIV-associated bronchiectasis and a control group of 5 children with cystic fibrosis (CF). Thirty-one samples were collected, with 11 during exacerbations. Sputum samples were processed with 16S rRNA pyrosequencing. The average number of operational taxonomy units (OTUs) was 298 ± 67 vs. 434 ± 90, for HIV-bronchiectasis and CF, respectively. The relative abundance of Proteobacteria was higher in HIV-bronchiectasis (72.3%), with only 22.2% Firmicutes. There was no correlation between lung functions (FEV% and FEF%) and bacterial community (r = 0.154; p = 0.470 and r = 0.178; p = 0.403), respectively. Bacterial assemblage of exacerbation and non-exacerbation samples in HIV-bronchiectasis was not significantly different (ANOSIM, R = 0.08; p = 0.14 and R = 0.08, p = 0.50). Higher within-community heterogeneity and lower evenness was associated with CF (Shannon-Weiner (H') = 5.39 ± 0.38 and Pielou's evenness (J) 0.79 ± 0.10 vs. HIV-bronchiectasis (Shannon-Weiner (H') = 4.45 ± 0.49 and Pielou's (J) 0.89 ± 0.03. The microbiome in children with HIV-associated bronchiectasis seems to be less rich, diverse and heterogeneous with predominance of Proteobacteria when compared to cystic fibrosis."	5
24358183	sputum 16S	PloS one	Microbiota and metabolite profiling reveal specific alterations in bacterial community structure and environment in the cystic fibrosis airway during exacerbation.	"Chronic polymicrobial infections of the lung are the foremost cause of morbidity and mortality in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. The composition of the microbial flora of the airway alters considerably during infection, particularly during patient exacerbation. An understanding of which organisms are growing, their environment and their behaviour in the airway is of importance for designing antibiotic treatment regimes and for patient prognosis. To this end, we have analysed sputum samples taken from separate cohorts of CF and non-CF subjects for metabolites and in parallel, and we have examined both isolated DNA and RNA for the presence of 16S rRNA genes and transcripts by high-throughput sequencing of amplicon or cDNA libraries. This analysis revealed that although the population size of all dominant orders of bacteria as measured by DNA- and RNA- based methods are similar, greater discrepancies are seen with less prevalent organisms, some of which we associated with CF for the first time. Additionally, we identified a strong relationship between the abundance of specific anaerobes and fluctuations in several metabolites including lactate and putrescine during patient exacerbation. This study has hence identified organisms whose occurrence within the CF microbiome has been hitherto unreported and has revealed potential metabolic biomarkers for exacerbation."	?
25549184	sputum 16S	Journal of visualized experiments : JoVE	Purifying the impure: sequencing metagenomes and metatranscriptomes from complex animal-associated samples.	"The accessibility of high-throughput sequencing has revolutionized many fields of biology. In order to better understand host-associated viral and microbial communities, a comprehensive workflow for DNA and RNA extraction was developed. The workflow concurrently generates viral and microbial metagenomes, as well as metatranscriptomes, from a single sample for next-generation sequencing. The coupling of these approaches provides an overview of both the taxonomical characteristics and the community encoded functions. The presented methods use Cystic Fibrosis (CF) sputum, a problematic sample type, because it is exceptionally viscous and contains high amount of mucins, free neutrophil DNA, and other unknown contaminants. The protocols described here target these problems and successfully recover viral and microbial DNA with minimal human DNA contamination. To complement the metagenomics studies, a metatranscriptomics protocol was optimized to recover both microbial and host mRNA that contains relatively few ribosomal RNA (rRNA) sequences. An overview of the data characteristics is presented to serve as a reference for assessing the success of the methods. Additional CF sputum samples were also collected to (i) evaluate the consistency of the microbiome profiles across seven consecutive days within a single patient, and (ii) compare the consistency of metagenomic approach to a 16S ribosomal RNA gene-based sequencing. The results showed that daily fluctuation of microbial profiles without antibiotic perturbation was minimal and the taxonomy profiles of the common CF-associated bacteria were highly similar between the 16S rDNA libraries and metagenomes generated from the hypotonic lysis (HL)-derived DNA. However, the differences between 16S rDNA taxonomical profiles generated from total DNA and HL-derived DNA suggest that hypotonic lysis and the washing steps benefit in not only removing the human-derived DNA, but also microbial-derived extracellular DNA that may misrepresent the actual microbial profiles."	1
37891457	sputum 16S	BMC microbiology	Limited effects of azithromycin on the oropharyngeal microbiome in children with CF and early pseudomonas infection.	"Tobramycin inhalation solution (TIS) and chronic azithromycin (AZ) have known clinical benefits for children with CF, likely due to antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory activity. The effects of chronic AZ in combination with TIS on the airway microbiome have not been extensively investigated. Oropharyngeal swab samples were collected in the OPTIMIZE multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled trial examining the addition of AZ to TIS in 198 children with CF and early P. aeruginosa infection. Bacterial small subunit rRNA gene community profiles were determined. The effects of TIS and AZ were assessed on oropharyngeal microbial diversity and composition to uncover whether effects on the bacterial community may be a mechanism of action related to the observed changes in clinical outcomes. Substantial changes in bacterial communities (total bacterial load, diversity and relative abundance of specific taxa) were observed by week 3 of TIS treatment for both the AZ and placebo groups. On average, these shifts were due to changes in non-traditional CF taxa that were not sustained at the later study visits (weeks 13 and 26). Bacterial community measures did not differ between the AZ and placebo groups. This study provides further evidence that the mechanism for AZ's effect on clinical outcomes is not due solely to action on airway microbial composition."	198
23734239	sputum 16S	PloS one	Rapid 16S rRNA next-generation sequencing of polymicrobial clinical samples for diagnosis of complex bacterial infections.	"Classifying individual bacterial species comprising complex, polymicrobial patient specimens remains a challenge for culture-based and molecular microbiology techniques in common clinical use. We therefore adapted practices from metagenomics research to rapidly catalog the bacterial composition of clinical specimens directly from patients, without need for prior culture. We have combined a semiconductor deep sequencing protocol that produces reads spanning 16S ribosomal RNA gene variable regions 1 and 2 (∼360 bp) with a de-noising pipeline that significantly improves the fraction of error-free sequences. The resulting sequences can be used to perform accurate genus- or species-level taxonomic assignment. We explore the microbial composition of challenging, heterogeneous clinical specimens by deep sequencing, culture-based strain typing, and Sanger sequencing of bulk PCR product. We report that deep sequencing can catalog bacterial species in mixed specimens from which usable data cannot be obtained by conventional clinical methods. Deep sequencing a collection of sputum samples from cystic fibrosis (CF) patients reveals well-described CF pathogens in specimens where they were not detected by standard clinical culture methods, especially for low-prevalence or fastidious bacteria. We also found that sputa submitted for CF diagnostic workup can be divided into a limited number of groups based on the phylogenetic composition of the airway microbiota, suggesting that metagenomic profiling may prove useful as a clinical diagnostic strategy in the future. The described method is sufficiently rapid (theoretically compatible with same-day turnaround times) and inexpensive for routine clinical use."	?
25679336	sputum 16S	Annals of the American Thoracic Society	Matrix metalloproteinases vary with airway microbiota composition and lung function in non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis.	"Despite growing evidence for the roles of airway remodeling and bacterial infection in the progression of non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis, relationships between collagen-degrading proteases and chronic airway infection are poorly understood. The aim of this study was to determine which matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are elevated in bronchiectasis, whether these MMP levels vary based on patients' dominant infective microbe, and how these levels correlate with clinical measures of disease severity. We determined concentrations of nine MMPs and four tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMPs) in induced sputum from 86 patients with bronchiectasis and 8 healthy control subjects by Luminex protein assay. Concentrations were then assessed in relation to lung function, inflammatory markers, and airway microbiota composition, determined by 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing. Airway microbiota composition was classified as Pseudomonas aeruginosa-dominated, Haemophilus influenzae-dominated, or dominated by another species. MMP-8 and MMP-9 activity levels were also measured in a subset of patients. MMP-1, -3, -7, -8, and -9 and TIMP-2 and -4 levels, as well as MMP-8/TIMP-1 and MMP-9/TIMP-1 ratios, were significantly higher in patients with bronchiectasis than in healthy control subjects (all: P < 0.001, except MMP-7: P < 0.05). Patients with bronchiectasis with H. influenzae-dominated airway infections demonstrated higher MMP-2 levels (P < 0.01) and MMP-8 activity (P < 0.05) than those with P. aeruginosa-dominated airway infections. Among patients with bronchiectasis, there were significant inverse correlations between FEV1 as a percentage of predicted value, MMP-8 and MMP-1 levels, and MMP-8/TIMP-1 and MMP-9/TIMP-1 ratios (P < 0.01). Increased MMP levels (particularly MMP-8 and MMP-1) and MMP/TIMP ratios in patients with bronchiectasis compared with healthy control subjects correlated with lower lung function and higher levels of inflammatory markers. Further, MMP profiles differed in patients with bronchiectasis according to the dominant pathogen determined by gene sequencing, raising the possibility of differential airway remodeling according to airway microbiology."	86
38104128	sputum 16S	Respiratory research	Longitudinal microbial and molecular dynamics in the cystic fibrosis lung after Elexacaftor-Tezacaftor-Ivacaftor therapy.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a genetic disorder causing poor mucociliary clearance in the airways and subsequent respiratory infection. The recently approved triple therapy Elexacaftor-Tezacaftor-Ivacaftor (ETI) has significantly improved lung function and decreased airway infection in persons with CF (pwCF). This improvement has been shown to occur rapidly, within the first few weeks of treatment. The effects of longer term ETI therapy on lung infection dynamics, however, remain mostly unknown. Here, we applied 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing, untargeted metabolomics, and neutral models to high-resolution, longitudinally collected sputum samples from pwCF on ETI therapy (162 samples, 7 patients) and compared to similarly collected data set from pwCF not taking ETI (630 samples, 9 patients). Because ETI reduces sputum production, samples were collected in freezers provided in the subject's homes at least 3 months after first taking ETI, with those on ETI collecting a sample approximately weekly. The lung function (%ppFEV1) of those in our longitudinal cohort significantly improved after ETI (6.91, SD = 7.74), indicating our study cohort was responsive to ETI. The daily variation of alpha- and beta-diversity of both the microbiome and metabolome was higher for those on ETI, reflecting a more dynamic microbial community and chemical environment during treatment. Four of the seven subjects on ETI were persistently infected with Pseudomonas or Burkholderia in their sputum throughout the sampling period while the total bacterial load significantly decreased with time (R = - 0.42, p = 0.01) in only one subject. The microbiome and metabolome dynamics on ETI were personalized, where some subjects had a progressive change with time on therapy, whereas others had no association with time on treatment. To further classify the augmented variance of the CF microbiome under therapy, we fit the microbiome data to a Hubbell neutral dynamics model in a patient-stratified manner and found that the subjects on ETI had better fit to a neutral model. This study shows that the longitudinal microbiology and chemistry in airway secretions from subjects on ETI has become more dynamic and neutral and that after the initial improvement in lung function, many are still persistently infected with CF pathogens."	162
24637203	viromics	Journal of clinical virology : the official publication of the Pan American Society for Clinical Virology	Virus and cystic fibrosis: rhinoviruses are associated with exacerbations in adult patients.	"Few studies have suggested the potential role of respiratory viruses in cystic fibrosis (CF) exacerbation, but their real impact is probably underestimated. Sixty-four sputum samples collected from 46 adult patients were included in the study: 33 samples were collected during exacerbation of CF, and 31 during the stable phase. After extraction, nucleic acids were tested for the presence of respiratory viruses. When rhinovirus (HRV) was detected, the 5'UTR and VP4/2 regions were sequenced, and phylogenetically analyzed. The characteristics of patients in exacerbation and stable phase were compared. Viruses were found in 25% of samples. The HRV viruses were the most frequently detected followed by coronaviruses. Only the HRV detection was significantly associated with the occurrence of CF pulmonary exacerbation (p<0.027). Characterization of 5'UTR and VP4/2 regions of the HRV genome specified that HRV-A, -B, -C were detected. All HRV-C were recombinant HRV-Ca. HRV were the most frequently detected viruses; their detection was significantly associated with the occurrence of an exacerbation. The reality of viral recombination between HRV was demonstrated in CF patients for the first time, raising the role of viruses in lung microbiota. Further studies are now warranted to decipher virus impact in CF."	64
19816605	viromics	PloS one	Metagenomic analysis of respiratory tract DNA viral communities in cystic fibrosis and non-cystic fibrosis individuals.	"The human respiratory tract is constantly exposed to a wide variety of viruses, microbes and inorganic particulates from environmental air, water and food. Physical characteristics of inhaled particles and airway mucosal immunity determine which viruses and microbes will persist in the airways. Here we present the first metagenomic study of DNA viral communities in the airways of diseased and non-diseased individuals. We obtained sequences from sputum DNA viral communities in 5 individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF) and 5 individuals without the disease. Overall, diversity of viruses in the airways was low, with an average richness of 175 distinct viral genotypes. The majority of viral diversity was uncharacterized. CF phage communities were highly similar to each other, whereas Non-CF individuals had more distinct phage communities, which may reflect organisms in inhaled air. CF eukaryotic viral communities were dominated by a few viruses, including human herpesviruses and retroviruses. Functional metagenomics showed that all Non-CF viromes were similar, and that CF viromes were enriched in aromatic amino acid metabolism. The CF metagenomes occupied two different metabolic states, probably reflecting different disease states. There was one outlying CF virome which was characterized by an over-representation of Guanosine-5'-triphosphate,3'-diphosphate pyrophosphatase, an enzyme involved in the bacterial stringent response. Unique environments like the CF airway can drive functional adaptations, leading to shifts in metabolic profiles. These results have important clinical implications for CF, indicating that therapeutic measures may be more effective if used to change the respiratory environment, as opposed to shifting the taxonomic composition of resident microbiota."	5
21980056	viromics	American journal of respiratory cell and molecular biology	Case studies of the spatial heterogeneity of DNA viruses in the cystic fibrosis lung.	"Microbial communities in the lungs of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) have been shown to be spatially heterogeneous. Viral communities may also vary spatially, leading to localized viral populations and infections. Here, we characterized viral communities from multiple areas of the lungs of two patients with late-stage CF using metagenomics, that is, the explanted lungs from a transplant patient and lungs acquired postmortem. All regions harbored eukaryotic viruses that may infect the human host, notably herpesviruses, anelloviruses, and papillomaviruses. In the highly diseased apical lobes of explant lungs, viral diversity was extremely low, and only eukaryotic viruses were present. The absence of phage suggests that CF-associated microbial biofilms may escape top-down controls by phage predation. The phages present in other lobes of explant lungs and in all lobes of postmortem lungs comprised distinct communities, and encoded genes for clinically important microbial phenotypes, including small colony variants and antibiotic resistance. Based on the these observations, we postulate that viral communities in CF lungs are spatially distinct and contribute to CF pathology by augmenting the metabolic potential of resident microbes, as well as by directly damaging lung tissue via carcinomas and herpesviral outbreaks."	2
21178461	viromics	Virulence	Deciphering the role of phage in the cystic fibrosis airway.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a fatal genetic disorder hallmarked by chronic and persistent microbial infections of the lungs and airways. Much attention has been paid to describing microbial communities and microbial pathogenesis in CF, however, viral communities have been largely ignored. We recently published a metagenomic study characterizing viral communities in the sputum of CF and Non-CF individuals for the first time. There was a striking difference in metabolic functions encoded by phage in CF versus Non-CF individuals. Regardless of which viral taxa were present, CF-associated phage shared a common core metabolism that reflected the disease state and aberrant airway physiology. Here, this finding is discussed further and its implications for the role of phage and the nature of phage-microbe interactions in the CF airway are explored."	6
25741327	viromics	Frontiers in microbiology	A metagenomic approach to characterize temperate bacteriophage populations from Cystic Fibrosis and non-Cystic Fibrosis bronchiectasis patients.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa (Pa), normally a soil commensal, is an important opportunistic pathogen in Cystic Fibrosis (CF) and non-Cystic Fibrosis Bronchiectasis (nCFBR). Persistent infection correlates with accelerated decline in lung function and early mortality. The horizontal transfer of DNA by temperate bacteriophages can add gene function and selective advantages to their bacterial host within the constrained environment of the lower lung. In this study, we chemically induce temperate bacteriophages from clonal cultures of Pa and identify their mixed viral communities employing metagenomic approaches. We compared 92 temperate phage metagenomes stratified from these clinical backgrounds (47 CF and 45 nCFBR Pa isolates) using MG-RAST and GeneWise2. KEGG analysis shows the complexity of temperate phage accessory gene carriage increases with duration and severity of the disease. Furthermore, we identify the presence of Ig-like motifs within phage structural genes linked to bacterial adhesion and carbohydrate binding including Big_2, He_Pig, and Fn3. This study provides the first clinical support to the proposed bacteriophage adherence to mucus (BAM) model and the evolution of phages interacting at these mucosal surfaces over time."	92
31164451	viromics	mSystems	Temperate Bacteriophages from Chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa Lung Infections Show Disease-Specific Changes in Host Range and Modulate Antimicrobial Susceptibility.	"Temperate bacteriophages are a common feature of  genomes, but their role in chronic lung infections is poorly understood. This study was designed to identify the diverse communities of mobile  phages by employing novel metagenomic methods, to determine cross infectivity, and to demonstrate the influence of phage infection on antimicrobial susceptibility. Mixed temperate phage populations were chemically mobilized from individual , isolated from patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) or bronchiectasis (BR). The infectivity phenotype of each temperate phage lysate was evaluated by performing a cross-infection screen against all bacterial isolates and tested for associations with clinical variables. We utilized metagenomic sequencing data generated for each phage lysate and developed a novel bioinformatic approach allowing resolution of individual temperate phage genomes. Finally, we used a subset of the temperate phages to infect  PAO1 and tested the resulting lysogens for their susceptibility to antibiotics. Here, we resolved 105 temperate phage genomes from 94 lysates that phylogenetically clustered into 8 groups. We observed disease-specific phage infectivity profiles and found that phages induced from bacteria isolated from more advanced disease infected broader ranges of  isolates. Importantly, when infecting PAO1  with 20 different phages, 8 influenced antimicrobial susceptibility. This study shows that  isolated from CF and BR patients harbors diverse communities of inducible phages, with hierarchical infectivity profiles that relate to the progression of the disease. Temperate phage infection altered the antimicrobial susceptibility of PAO1 at subinhibitory concentrations of antibiotics, suggesting they may be precursory to antimicrobial resistance.  is a key opportunistic respiratory pathogen in patients with cystic fibrosis and non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis. The genomes of these pathogens are enriched with mobile genetic elements including diverse temperate phages. While the temperate phages of the Liverpool epidemic strain have been shown to be active in the human lung and enhance fitness in a rat lung infection model, little is known about their mobilization more broadly across  in chronic respiratory infection. Using a novel metagenomic approach, we identified eight groups of temperate phages that were mobilized from 94 clinical  isolates. Temperate phages from  isolated from more advanced disease showed high infectivity rates across a wide range of  genotypes. Furthermore, we showed that multiple phages altered the susceptibility of PAO1 to antibiotics at subinhibitory concentrations."	?
32442222	viromics	PloS one	The intestinal virome in children with cystic fibrosis differs from healthy controls.	"Intestinal bacterial dysbiosis is evident in children with cystic fibrosis (CF) and intestinal viruses may be contributory, given their influence on bacterial species diversity and biochemical cycles. We performed a prospective, case-control study on children with CF and age and gender matched healthy controls (HC), to investigate the composition and function of intestinal viral communities. Stool samples were enriched for viral DNA and RNA by viral extraction, random amplification and purification before sequencing (Illumina MiSeq). Taxonomic assignment of viruses was performed using Vipie. Functional annotation was performed using Virsorter. Inflammation was measured by calprotectin and M2-pyruvate kinase (M2-PK). Eight CF and eight HC subjects were included (50% male, mean age 6.9 ± 3.0 and 6.4 ± 5.3 years, respectively, p = 0.8). All CF subjects were pancreatic insufficient. Regarding the intestinal virome, no difference in Shannon index between CF and HC was identified. Taxonomy-based beta-diversity (presence-absence Bray-Curtis dissimilarity) was significantly different between CF and HC (R2 = 0.12, p = 0.001). Myoviridae, Faecalibacterium phage FP Taranis and unclassified Gokushovirinae were significantly decreased in CF compared with HC (q<0.05). In children with CF (compared to HC), the relative abundance of genes annotated to (i) a peptidoglycan-binding domain of the peptidoglycan hydrolases (COG3409) was significantly increased (q<0.05) and (ii) capsid protein (F protein) (PF02305.16) was significantly decreased (q<0.05). Picornavirales, Picornaviridae, and Enterovirus were found to positively correlate with weight and BMI (r = 0.84, q = 0.01). Single-stranded DNA viruses negatively correlated with M2-PK (r = -0.86, q = 0.048). Children with CF have an altered intestinal virome compared to well-matched HC, with both taxonomic and predicted functional changes. Further exploration of Faecalibacterium phages, Gokushovirinae and phage lysins are warranted. Intestinal viruses and their functions may have important clinical implications for intestinal inflammation and growth in children with CF, potentially providing novel therapeutic targets."	8
30944166		Science translational medicine	Mucus accumulation in the lungs precedes structural changes and infection in children with cystic fibrosis.	"Although destructive airway disease is evident in young children with cystic fibrosis (CF), little is known about the nature of the early CF lung environment triggering the disease. To elucidate early CF pulmonary pathophysiology, we performed mucus, inflammation, metabolomic, and microbiome analyses on bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) from 46 preschool children with CF enrolled in the Australian Respiratory Early Surveillance Team for Cystic Fibrosis (AREST CF) program and 16 non-CF disease controls. Total airway mucins were elevated in CF compared to non-CF BALF irrespective of infection, and higher densities of mucus flakes containing mucin 5B and mucin 5AC were observed in samples from CF patients. Total mucins and mucus flakes correlated with inflammation, hypoxia, and oxidative stress. Many CF BALFs appeared sterile by culture and molecular analyses, whereas other samples exhibiting bacterial taxa associated with the oral cavity. Children without computed tomography-defined structural lung disease exhibited elevated BALF mucus flakes and neutrophils, but little/no bacterial infection. Although CF mucus flakes appeared ""permanent"" because they did not dissolve in dilute BALF matrix, they could be solubilized by a previously unidentified reducing agent (P2062), but not -acetylcysteine or deoxyribonuclease. These findings indicate that early CF lung disease is characterized by an increased mucus burden and inflammatory markers without infection or structural lung disease and suggest that mucolytic and anti-inflammatory agents should be explored as preventive therapy."	
36822979		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Distinct community structures of the fungal microbiome and respiratory health in adults with cystic fibrosis.	"The respiratory tract fungal microbiome in cystic fibrosis (CF) has been understudied despite increasing recognition of fungal pathogens in CF lung disease. We sought to better understand the fungal communities in adults with CF, and to define relationships between fungal profiles and clinical characteristics. We enrolled 66 adults with CF and collected expectorated sputum, spirometry, Cystic Fibrosis Questionnaire-revised, and clinical data. Fungi were molecularly profiled by sequencing of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region. Total fungal abundance was measured by quantitative PCR. Relative abundance and qPCR-corrected abundances were determined. Selective fungus culture identified cultivable fungi. Alpha diversity and beta diversity were measured and relationships with clinical parameters were interrogated. Median age was 29 years and median FEV percent predicted 58%. Members of the Candida genus were the most frequent dominant taxa in CF sputum. Apiotrichum, Trichosporon, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and Scedosporium were present in high relative abundance in few samples; whereas, Aspergillus species were detected at low levels. Higher FEV% predicted and CFTR modulator use were associated with greater alpha-diversity. Chronic azithromycin use was associated with lower alpha-diversity. Patients with acute pulmonary had distinct fungal community composition compared to clinically stable subjects. Differing yeast species were mainly responsible for the community differences. The respiratory tract fungal microbiome in adults with CF is associated with lung function, pulmonary exacerbation status, macrolide use, and CFTR modulator use. Future work to better understand fungal diversity in the CF airway and its impact on lung health is necessary."	
32103176		Nature	Global chemical effects of the microbiome include new bile-acid conjugations.	"A mosaic of cross-phylum chemical interactions occurs between all metazoans and their microbiomes. A number of molecular families that are known to be produced by the microbiome have a marked effect on the balance between health and disease. Considering the diversity of the human microbiome (which numbers over 40,000 operational taxonomic units), the effect of the microbiome on the chemistry of an entire animal remains underexplored. Here we use mass spectrometry informatics and data visualization approaches to provide an assessment of the effects of the microbiome on the chemistry of an entire mammal by comparing metabolomics data from germ-free and specific-pathogen-free mice. We found that the microbiota affects the chemistry of all organs. This included the amino acid conjugations of host bile acids that were used to produce phenylalanocholic acid, tyrosocholic acid and leucocholic acid, which have not previously been characterized despite extensive research on bile-acid chemistry. These bile-acid conjugates were also found in humans, and were enriched in patients with inflammatory bowel disease or cystic fibrosis. These compounds agonized the farnesoid X receptor in vitro, and mice gavaged with the compounds showed reduced expression of bile-acid synthesis genes in vivo. Further studies are required to confirm whether these compounds have a physiological role in the host, and whether they contribute to gut diseases that are associated with microbiome dysbiosis."	
36476129		American journal of respiratory cell and molecular biology	The Human Respiratory Microbiome: Current Understandings and Future Directions.	"Microorganisms colonize the human body. The lungs and respiratory tract, previously believed to be sterile, harbor diverse microbial communities and the genomes of bacteria (bacteriome), viruses (virome), and fungi (mycobiome). Recent advances in amplicon and shotgun metagenomic sequencing technologies and data-analyzing methods have greatly aided the identification and characterization of microbial populations from airways. The respiratory microbiome has been shown to play roles in human health and disease and is an area of rapidly emerging interest in pulmonary medicine. In this review, we provide updated information in the field by focusing on four lung conditions, including asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cystic fibrosis, and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. We evaluate gut, oral, and upper airway microbiomes and how they contribute to lower airway flora. The discussion is followed by a systematic review of the lower airway microbiome in health and disease. We conclude with promising research avenues and implications for evolving therapeutics."	
35676823		Clinical infectious diseases : an official publication of the Infectious Diseases Society of America	Phage Therapy of Mycobacterium Infections: Compassionate Use of Phages in 20 Patients With Drug-Resistant Mycobacterial Disease.	"Nontuberculous Mycobacterium infections, particularly Mycobacterium abscessus, are increasingly common among patients with cystic fibrosis and chronic bronchiectatic lung diseases. Treatment is challenging due to intrinsic antibiotic resistance. Bacteriophage therapy represents a potentially novel approach. Relatively few active lytic phages are available and there is great variation in phage susceptibilities among M. abscessus isolates, requiring personalized phage identification. Mycobacterium isolates from 200 culture-positive patients with symptomatic disease were screened for phage susceptibilities. One or more lytic phages were identified for 55 isolates. Phages were administered intravenously, by aerosolization, or both to 20 patients on a compassionate use basis and patients were monitored for adverse reactions, clinical and microbiologic responses, the emergence of phage resistance, and phage neutralization in serum, sputum, or bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. No adverse reactions attributed to therapy were seen in any patient regardless of the pathogen, phages administered, or the route of delivery. Favorable clinical or microbiological responses were observed in 11 patients. Neutralizing antibodies were identified in serum after initiation of phage delivery intravenously in 8 patients, potentially contributing to lack of treatment response in 4 cases, but were not consistently associated with unfavorable responses in others. Eleven patients were treated with only a single phage, and no phage resistance was observed in any of these. Phage treatment of Mycobacterium infections is challenging due to the limited repertoire of therapeutically useful phages, but favorable clinical outcomes in patients lacking any other treatment options support continued development of adjunctive phage therapy for some mycobacterial infections."	
25721416		Mammalian genome : official journal of the International Mammalian Genome Society	Cystic fibrosis mouse model-dependent intestinal structure and gut microbiome.	"Mice with a null mutation in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (Cftr) gene show intestinal structure alterations and bacterial overgrowth. To determine whether these changes are model-dependent and whether the intestinal microbiome is altered in cystic fibrosis (CF) mouse models, we characterized the ileal tissue and intestinal microbiome of mice with the clinically common ΔF508 Cftr mutation (FVB/N Cftr(tm1Eur)) and with Cftr null mutations (BALB/c Cftr(tm1UNC) and C57BL/6 Cftr(tm1UNC)). Intestinal disease in 12-week-old CF mice, relative to wild-type strain controls, was measured histologically. The microbiome was characterized by pyrosequencing of the V4-V6 region of the 16S rRNA gene and intestinal load was measured by RT-PCR of the 16S rRNA gene. The CF-associated increases in ileal crypt to villus axis distention, goblet cell hyperplasia, and muscularis externa thickness were more severe in the BALB/c and C57BL/6 Cftr(tm1UNC) mice than in the FVB/N Cftr(tm1Eur) mice. Intestinal bacterial load was significantly increased in all CF models, compared to levels in controls, and positively correlated with circular muscle thickness in CF, but not wild-type, mice. Microbiome profiling identified Bifidobacterium and groups of Lactobacillus to be of altered abundance in the CF mice but overall bacterial frequencies were not common to the three CF strains and were not correlative of major histological changes. In conclusion, intestinal structure alterations, bacterial overgrowth, and dysbiosis were each more severe in BALB/c and C57BL/6 Cftr(tm1UNC) mice than in the FVB/N Cftr(tm1Eur) mice. The intestinal microbiome differed among the three CF mouse models."	
36600119		Digestive diseases and sciences	Cystic Fibrosis-Related Gut Dysbiosis: A Systematic Review.	"Cystic Fibrosis (CF) is associated with gut dysbiosis, local and systemic inflammation, and impaired immune function. Gut microbiota dysbiosis results from changes in the complex gut milieu in response to CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) dysfunction, pancreatic malabsorption, diet, medications, and environmental influences. In several diseases, alteration of the gut microbiota influences local and systemic inflammation and disease outcomes. We conducted a systematic review of the gut microbiota in CF and explored factors influencing dysbiosis. An electronic search of three databases was conducted in January 2019, and re-run in June 2021. Human, animal, and in vitro studies were included. The primary outcome was differences in the gut microbiota between people with CF (pwCF) and healthy controls. Secondary outcomes included the relationship between the gut microbiota and other factors, including diet, medication, inflammation, and pulmonary function in pwCF. Thirty-eight studies were identified. The literature confirmed the presence of CF-related gut dysbiosis, characterized by reduced diversity and several taxonomic changes. There was a relative increase of bacteria associated with a pro-inflammatory response coupled with a reduction of those considered anti-inflammatory. However, studies linking gut dysbiosis to systemic and lung inflammation were limited. Causes of gut dysbiosis were multifactorial, and findings were variable. Data on the impact of CFTR modulators on the gut microbiota were limited. CF-related gut dysbiosis is evident in pwCF. Whether this influences local and systemic disease and is amenable to interventions with diet and drugs, such as CFTR modulators, requires further investigation."	
30799037		Cell	Human Anti-fungal Th17 Immunity and Pathology Rely on Cross-Reactivity against Candida albicans.	"Th17 cells provide protection at barrier tissues but may also contribute to immune pathology. The relevance and induction mechanisms of pathologic Th17 responses in humans are poorly understood. Here, we identify the mucocutaneous pathobiont Candida albicans as the major direct inducer of human anti-fungal Th17 cells. Th17 cells directed against other fungi are induced by cross-reactivity to C. albicans. Intestinal inflammation expands total C. albicans and cross-reactive Th17 cells. Strikingly, Th17 cells cross-reactive to the airborne fungus Aspergillus fumigatus are selectively activated and expanded in patients with airway inflammation, especially during acute allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis. This indicates a direct link between protective intestinal Th17 responses against C. albicans and lung inflammation caused by airborne fungi. We identify heterologous immunity to a single, ubiquitous member of the microbiota as a central mechanism for systemic induction of human anti-fungal Th17 responses and as a potential risk factor for pulmonary inflammatory diseases."	
36990700		Zhonghua jie he he hu xi za zhi = Zhonghua jiehe he huxi zazhi = Chinese journal of tuberculosis and respiratory diseases	[Chinese experts consensus statement: diagnosis and treatment of cystic fibrosis (2023)].	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is one of the most common autosomal recessive genetic diseases in Caucasians, but CF patients in China are rare, and it was listed as the first batch of rare diseases in China in 2018. In recent years, CF has been gradually recognized in China, and the number of CF patients reported in China in the past 10 years is more than 2.5 times the total number in the previous 30 years, and the total number of CF patients is estimated to be more than 20 000. The research progress of CF gene modification has led to the innovation of CF treatment. However, the sweat test as an important test for the diagnosis of CF has not been widely implemented in China. At present, the diagnosis and treatment of CF in China still lacks standardized recommendations. In view of these updates, the Chinese Experts Cystic Fibrosis Consensus Committee has formed ""the Chinese experts consensus statement: diagnosis and treatment of cystic fibrosis"" based on extensive opinion gathering, literatures review, multiple meetings and discussions. This consensus collects 38 core issues related to CF, including pathogenesis, epidemiology, clinical characteristics, diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation, and patient management. Finally, 32 recommendations were formulated. The consensus used the modified GRADE methodology to grade the evidence evaluation and recommendations. This is the current state of CF consensus in China, and we hope to improve the diagnosis and treatment of CF in China in the future.CF should be suspected if there is: (1) a family history of CF; (2) delayed meconium expulsion or meconium ileus; (3) pancreatic exocrine insufficiency, mainly characterized by long-standing steatorrhea and malnutrition; (4) recurrent lower respiratory tract infections of infantile onset, especially  infections of respiratory aetiology; (5) chronic sinusitis, especially when combined with juvenile presentation of nasal polyps; (6) chest CT abnormalities such as the presence of air trapping, bronchiectasis (upper lobe predominant); (7) pseudo-Bartter syndrome; (8) absence of vas deferens in males; (9) clubbing in young bronchiectasis patients(1C).1.1 Presence of one or more of the characteristic clinical manifestations or family history consistent with CF, and meeting at least one of the following definite diagnostic criteria in 1.2 or 1.3.1.2 Sweat chloride testing:(1) Concentrations of more than 60 mmol/L are diagnostic; (2) concentrations between 30-59 mmol/L are intermediate, and genetic variation must be considered to confirm the diagnosis; (3) concentrations less than 30 mmol/L are considered normal.1.3 Genetic testing:(1) Detection of two disease-causing (cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator) mutations on biallelic alleles; (2) The  variants are of undetermined significance, but tests such as sweat chloride concentration, intestinal current measurement, or nasal mucosal potential difference suggest abnormal CFTR function, then CF is diagnostic(1C).Sweat chloride testing and  gene analysis are recommended in all patients suspected of CF(1D).Sweat chloride testing is the gold standard for the clinical diagnosis of CF(1C).Biallelic pathogenic variants of  are a definitive diagnosis of CF(1D).Chest CT is a sensitive test for early stages of lung disease in patients with CF and is appropriate in younger patients and to assess disease progression. The imaging findings of abdominal visceral involvement in CF lack specificity(2C).Fecal elastase may be used as the first indicator to assess pancreatic exocrine function in patients with CF (2C).CF related liver disease was diagnosed when CF was confirmed and 2 of the following 4 criteria were met: (1) hepatomegaly and/or splenomegaly confirmed by ultrasound; (2) ALT, AST, and GGT on three consecutive occasions above the upper limit of normal on three consecutive occasions for more than 12 months and excluding other causes; (3) had evidence of liver involvement, portal hypertension, or bile duct dilatation by ultrasound; (4) liver biopsy confirmation (focal biliary cirrhosis or multilobular cirrhosis) may be indicated if the diagnosis is suspected(2D).Pulmonary exacerbations are indicated when any 4 of the following 12 signs or symptoms are met: increased sputum; new onset haemoptysis or increased haemoptysis; exacerbation of cough; increased dyspnea; malaise, fatigue, or somnolence; body temperature above 38 ℃; anorexia or weight loss; sinus pain or tenderness; increased sinus secretions; new chest signs; FEV≥10% decline from previous; imaging changes suggestive of pulmonary infection(2D).Diagnostic criteria for CF related diabetes are the same as those for diabetes in the population(1D).Anthropometric parameters reflecting nutritional status should be assessed regularly. And the goal of nutritional assessment is to evaluate and monitor whether pediatric patients are achieving normal standards of growth and development or whether adult patients are maintaining adequate nutritional status(1C).Pathohistological biopsy is not recommended as a first-line diagnostic method in patients with a suspected diagnosis of CF(1D).At least 6 months of azithromycin treatment is recommended for CF patients with chronic PA infection(2A).Long term treatment with hypertonic saline is recommended for patients with CF(1A).Long term use of DNase is recommended in patients with CF aged 6 years and older(1A).Inhaled mannitol therapy is recommended for more than 6 months in patients with CF aged 18 years and older when other inhaled treatments are unavailable or intolerable(2A).When sputum cultures from patients with CF are positive for , it needs to determine the characteristics of the infection first. The purpose for acute infection is to eradicate . Chronic colonization does not need to be eradicated, and the main purpose is to reduce the bacterial load and improve symptoms(1A).Inhaled antibiotic therapy is recommended for CF patients with  infection(1A).In patients with CF without asthma or ABPA, routine inhaled or systemic glucocorticoids are not recommended (2A).Bronchodilators can be used in the short term to improve symptoms in patients with CF in the presence of airway obstruction, but the long-term benefit is insufficient (2B).Patients with CF can take acetylcysteine orally or aerosolized(2A).Intensive implementation of non-antimicrobial therapy is recommended during pulmonary exacerbations in patients with CF. Antimicrobials with activity against PA were selected for empirical treatment, and the treatment was adjusted according to the results of bacterial culture and drug susceptibility testing. A 21-day long course of anti-infective therapy is not recommended(1B).Medical therapy is recommended for CF patients with ABPA who meet any of the following criteria: patients with elevated immunoglobulin E levels and concomitant worsening of pulmonary function and/or pulmonary symptoms, or imaging suggesting new infiltrative foci in the chest(1D).Glucocorticoids are recommended for ABPA exacerbations in CF patients without contraindications(2D).Itraconazole should be added if the patient presents with poor response to corticosteroids, recurrence of ABPA, corticosteroid dependence, or corticosteroid toxicity(2D).Patients with CF may be evaluated for lung transplantation when they meet the following criteria after optimal medical therapy: (1) FEV<30% predicted; (2) FEV<40% predicted (<50% predicted in children) with the following: 6-minute walk distance<400 meters; PaCO>50 mmHg(1 mmHg=0.133 kPa); hypoxia at rest or after activity; pulmonary artery pressure measured by cardiotocography>50 mmHg or right heart dysfunction; continued deterioration despite aggressive supplementation of nutritional support; two exacerbations requiring intravenous antibiotic therapy per year; massive hemoptysis (>240 ml) requiring pulmonary artery embolization; presented with pneumothorax; (3) FEV<50% predicted and rapid decline in lung function or rapid worsening of symptoms; (4) Presented with an acute exacerbation requiring positive pressure mechanical ventilation(2C).Pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy is recommended in patients with CF pancreatic disease(1A).Ursodeoxycholic acid is not recommended in asymptomatic patients with CF hepatobiliary disease(2B).Acid suppression is recommended for CF patients with gastrointestinal symptoms such as acid regurgitation (2B).Insulin therapy is recommended in CF related diabetes(1B).Energy intake in patients with CF is recommended to be 110%-200% of the energy requirement of a healthy person under equivalent physiological conditions. And maintaining adequate protein, appropriate intake of fats, electrolytes, and fat-soluble vitamins are recommanded(1A).Airway clearance therapy and appropriate exercise are recommended for patients with CF(1A).Patients with CF should have regular follow-up. Adult patients are recommended to be followed every 3-6 months, and children should be followed more frequently(2A).Inpatients and outpatients are recommended to be separated according to microbiota carriage status(1D).Good hand hygiene is recommended for the patients with CF and their contacts(1D).It is recommended that CF patients wear masks in healthcare settings. This may reduce the release of potentially infectious aerosols during coughing (1D).Annual influenza vaccination is recommended for patients with CF>6 months of age and for all family members of patients with CF and all healthcare workers caring for these patients(2D).Palivizumab may be considered for the prevention of respiratory syncytial virus infection in patients with CF under two years of age(2A)."	
30358738		Journal of pediatric gastroenterology and nutrition	Systematic Review of Probiotics for Cystic Fibrosis Patients: Moving Forward.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is associated with chronic respiratory disease and pancreatic insufficiency and results in the malabsorption of nutrients and intestinal inflammation. There is evidence that probiotic supplementation may impact the gastrointestinal and respiratory microbiota. This study aimed to categorize current evidence regarding the effects of supplementing with probiotics in CF patients on gastrointestinal and respiratory outcomes according to the type of intervention. The initial database search included all identified studies according to the recommendations of the Cochrane Collaboration, regardless of language, publication date or design. Studies were categorized by probiotic strain (Lactobacillus reuteri; Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG or a mix of strains); dosage (low dosage if <10 CFU [colony forming units] or high dosage if >10 CFU); and duration of intervention (1, 3, 6, or 12 months). Assessment of quality was performed based on the Cochrane risk of bias criteria and the Downs & Black checklist. A total of 205 studies were identified; however, only 9 met the criteria for inclusion. The studies were considered to have a high risk of bias, hampering the possibility of performing a meta-analysis. Eighty percent of the studies (4 of 5) reported a positive result for intestinal inflammation, and another 4 studies (4 of 5) reported a positive result for pulmonary exacerbation frequency, regardless of the treatment approach. The present data indicate a promising future for probiotic use in cystic fibrosis, which has an impact on exacerbations and intestinal inflammation; however, further studies of standardized therapeutic interventions are required."	
37405191		Oncoimmunology	Bile acids regulate MAdCAM-1 expression to link the gut microbiota to cancer immunosurveillance.	"In a recent paper in , Fidelle et al. unravel a gut immune checkpoint that is subverted by antibiotic treatment. Post-antibiotic dysbiosis of the ileum causes an increase in bile acids that downregulate MAdCAM-1, thereby triggering the exodus of immunosuppressive T cells from gut-associated lymphoid tissues toward tumors."	
35719342		Frontiers in cellular and infection microbiology	Editorial: Co-Infection and Consequences in Cystic Fibrosis.		
33444699		The Journal of infection	A multicentre analysis of Clostridium difficile in persons with Cystic Fibrosis demonstrates that carriage may be transient and highly variable with respect to strain and level.	"Clostridium difficile has been reported to occur in the gastrointestinal tract of 50% of Cystic Fibrosis (CF) subjects, however, clinical C. difficile infection (CDI) is a rare occurrence in this cohort despite the presence of toxigenic and hypervirulent ribotypes. Here, we present the first longitudinal, multicentre analysis of C. difficile prevalence among adult CF subjects. Faecal samples were collected from adults with CF (selected based on confirmed Pseudomonas aeruginosa pulmonary colonisation) from Ireland, UK and Belgium as part of the CFMATTERS clinical research trial (grant No. 603038) and from non-CF controls. Faecal samples were collected on enrolment, at three monthly intervals, during pulmonary exacerbation and three months post exacerbation. C. difficile was isolated from faecal samples by ethanol shocking followed by culturing on cycloserine cefoxitin egg yolk agar. Isolates were characterised in terms of ribotype, toxin type and antibiotic susceptibility to antibiotics routinely used in the treatment of CDI (metronidazole and vancomycin) and those implicated in induction of CDI (ciprofloxacin and moxifloxacin). Prevalence of C. difficile among CF subjects in the three sites was similar ranging from 47% to 50% at baseline, while the healthy control cohort had a carriage rate of 7.1%. Including subjects who were positive for C. difficile at any time point there was a higher carriage rate of 71.4%, 66.7% and 63.2% in Ireland, UK, and Belgium, respectively. Ribotyping of 80 isolates from 45 CF persons, over multiple time points revealed 23 distinct ribotypes with two ribotypes (046 and 078) shared by all centres. The proportion of toxigenic isolates varied across the sites, ranging from 66.7% in Ireland to 52.9% in Belgium and 100% in the UK. Antibiotic susceptibility rates to vancomycin, metronidazole, ciprofloxacin and moxifloxacin was 100%, 97.5%, 1.3% and 63.8%, respectively. This study demonstrates the highest carriage rate of C. difficile to date in a CF cohort. Longitudinal data show that C. difficile can be a transient inhabitant of the CF gut, changing both in terms of strain and excretion rates."	
30487204		The European respiratory journal	Characterising the respiratory microbiome.		
28069292		Archivos de bronconeumologia	Microbial Dysbiosis in Bronchiectasis and Cystic Fibrosis.		
35141165		Frontiers in cellular and infection microbiology	Dynamic Upper and Lower Airway Microbiotas in Paediatric Bronchiectasis Exacerbations: A Pilot Study.	"Non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis is a respiratory health condition with many possible aetiologies, some of which are potentially reversible in childhood with early diagnosis and appropriate treatment. It is important to understand factors which contribute to progression or potential resolution of bronchiectasis. It is evident that respiratory exacerbations are a key feature of bronchiectasis disease progression. In this pilot study we document how the microbiota of the upper and lower airways presents during the course of an exacerbation and treatment. We recruited children (aged 1-15) undergoing antibiotic treatment for bronchiectasis exacerbations at Starship Children's Hospital and outpatient clinics. Sputum and nasal swabs were taken before and after antibiotic treatment. Sample DNA was extracted, then bacterial 16S rRNA genes amplified and sequenced  Illumina MiSeq. Thirty patients were recruited into this study with 81 samples contributing to the final dataset, including 8 patients with complete sets of upper and lower airway samples at both (before and after antibiotics) timepoints. Changes in alpha-diversity over the course of an exacerbation and treatment were non-significant. However, sample composition did alter over the course of an exacerbation, with most notably a reduction in the relative abundance of amplicon sequence variants assigned to . has been associated with more severe symptoms in respiratory infections and a reduction in its relative abundance may represent a positive shift in a patient's microbiota. Current treatments for bronchiectasis may preserve bacterial diversity while altering microbiota composition."	
37286896		FEMS microbiology reviews	Microbiota and fungal-bacterial interactions in the cystic fibrosis lung.	"The most common genetic hereditary disease affecting Caucasians is cystic fibrosis (CF), which is caused by autosomal recessive mutations in the CFTR gene. The most serious consequence is the production of a thick and sticky mucus in the respiratory tract, which entraps airborne microorganisms and facilitates colonization, inflammation and infection. Therefore, the present article compiles the information about the microbiota and, particularly, the inter-kingdom fungal-bacterial interactions in the CF lung, the molecules involved and the potential effects that these interactions may have on the course of the disease. Among the bacterial compounds, quorum sensing-regulated molecules such as homoserine lactones, phenazines, rhamnolipids, quinolones and siderophores (pyoverdine and pyochelin) stand out, but volatile organic compounds, maltophilin and CF-related bacteriophages are also explained. These molecules exhibit diverse antifungal mechanisms, including iron starvation and induction of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species production. The fungal compounds are less studied, but they include cell wall components, siderophores, patulin and farnesol. Despite the apparent competition between microorganisms, the persistence of significant rates of bacterial-fungal co-colonization in CF suggests that numerous variables influence it. In conclusion, it is crucial to increase scientific and economic efforts to intensify studies on the bacterial-fungal inter-kingdom interactions in the CF lung."	
28802277		Thorax	Microbiome in lung explants of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis: a case-control study in patients with end-stage fibrosis.	"The microbiome has been proposed to play a role in the progression of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) based on bronchoalveolar lavage analyses, but the microbiome of lung tissue in IPF has not been explored. In a case-control study of lung explants analysed by 16S rRNA gene sequencing, we could not reliably detect bacterial DNA in basilar tissue samples from patients with either chronic or acute exacerbations of IPF, in contrast to control candidate-donor lungs or cystic fibrosis explants. Thus, our data do not indicate microbiome alterations in regions of IPF lung with advanced fibrosis."	
38168439		medRxiv : the preprint server for health sciences	Strain-level characterization of health-associated bacterial consortia that colonize the human gut during infancy.	"The human gut microbiome develops rapidly during infancy, a key window of development coinciding with maturation of the adaptive immune system. However, little is known of the microbiome growth dynamics over the first few months of life and whether there are any generalizable patterns across human populations. We performed metagenomic sequencing on stool samples (n=94) from a cohort of infants (n=15) at monthly intervals in the first six months of life, augmenting our dataset with seven published studies for a total of 4,441 metagenomes from 1,162 infants. Strain-level  analysis was used to identify 592 of the most abundant organisms in the infant gut microbiome. Previously unrecognized consortia were identified which exhibited highly correlated abundances across samples and were composed of diverse species spanning multiple genera. Analysis of a cohort of infants with cystic fibrosis identified one such novel consortium of diverse  which was positively correlated with weight gain. While all studies showed an increased community stability during the first year of life, microbial dynamics varied widely in the first few months of life, both by study and by individual. By augmenting published metagenomic datasets with data from a newly established cohort we were able to identify novel groups of organisms that are correlated with measures of robust human development. We hypothesize that the presence of these groups may impact human health in aggregate in ways that individual species may not in isolation."	
29669883		mSphere	Impact of Long-Term Erythromycin Therapy on the Oropharyngeal Microbiome and Resistance Gene Reservoir in Non-Cystic Fibrosis Bronchiectasis.	"Long-term macrolide therapy reduces rates of pulmonary exacerbation in bronchiectasis. However, little is known about the potential for macrolide therapy to alter the composition and function of the oropharyngeal commensal microbiota or to increase the carriage of transmissible antimicrobial resistance. We assessed the effect of long-term erythromycin on oropharyngeal microbiota composition and the carriage of transmissible macrolide resistance genes in 84 adults with bronchiectasis, enrolled in the Bronchiectasis and Low-dose Erythromycin Study (BLESS) 48-week placebo-controlled trial of twice-daily erythromycin ethylsuccinate (400 mg). Oropharyngeal microbiota composition and macrolide resistance gene carriage were determined by 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing and quantitative PCR, respectively. Long-term erythromycin treatment was associated with a significant increase in the relative abundance of oropharyngeal  ( = 0.041) and with significant decreases in the relative abundances of  ( = 0.024) and  ( = 0.027). Validation of the sequencing results by quantitative PCR confirmed a significant decrease in the abundance of  spp. ( = 0.046). Erythromycin treatment did not result in a significant increase in the number of subjects who carried (A), (B), (C), (F), (A/E), and  macrolide resistance genes. However, the abundance of (B) and (A/E) gene copies within carriers who had received erythromycin increased significantly ( < 0.05). Our findings indicate that changes in oropharyngeal microbiota composition resulting from long-term erythromycin treatment are modest and are limited to a discrete group of taxa. Associated increases in levels of transmissible antibiotic resistance genes within the oropharyngeal microbiota highlight the potential for this microbial system to act as a reservoir for resistance. Recent demonstrations that long-term macrolide therapy can prevent exacerbations in chronic airways diseases have led to a dramatic increase in their use. However, little is known about the wider, potentially adverse impacts of these treatments. Substantial disruption of the upper airway commensal microbiota might reduce its contribution to host defense and local immune regulation, while increases in macrolide resistance carriage would represent a serious public health concern. Using samples from a randomized controlled trial, we show that low-dose erythromycin given over 48 weeks influences the composition of the oropharyngeal commensal microbiota. We report that macrolide therapy is associated with significant changes in the relative abundances of members of the  genus and with significant increases in the carriage of transmissible macrolide resistance. Determining the clinical significance of these changes, relative to treatment benefit, now represents a research priority."	
36519943		Microbiology spectrum	"{'i': 'Achromobacter', '#text': 'Polymyxin Resistance and Heteroresistance Are Common in Clinical Isolates of  Species and Correlate with Modifications of the Lipid A Moiety of Lipopolysaccharide.'}"	"The  genus includes opportunistic pathogens that can cause chronic infections in immunocompromised patients, especially in people with cystic fibrosis (CF). Treatment of  infections is complicated by antimicrobial resistance. In this study, a collection of  clinical isolates, from CF and non-CF sources, was investigated for polymyxin B (PmB) resistance. Additionally, the effect of PmB challenge in a subset of isolates was examined and the presence of PmB-resistant subpopulations within the isolates was described. Further, chemical and mass spectrometry analyses of the lipid A of  clinical isolates enabled the determination of the most common structures and showed that PmB challenge was associated with lipid A modifications that included the addition of glucosamine and palmitoylation and the concomitant loss of the free phosphate at the C-1 position. This study demonstrates that lipid A modifications associated with PmB resistance are prevalent in  and that subresistant populations displaying the addition of positively charged residues and additional acyl chains to lipid A can be selected for and isolated from PmB-sensitive  clinical isolates.   species can cause chronic and potentially severe infections in immunocompromised patients, especially in those with cystic fibrosis. Bacteria cannot be eradicated due to 's intrinsic multidrug resistance. We report that intrinsic resistance to polymyxin B (PmB), a last-resort antimicrobial peptide used to treat infections by multiresistant bacteria, is prevalent in  clinical isolates; many isolates also display increased resistance upon PmB challenge. Analysis of the lipopolysaccharide lipid A moiety of several  species reveals a penta-acylated lipid A, which in the PmB-resistant isolates was modified by the incorporation of glucosamine residues, an additional acyl chain, loss of phosphates, and hydroxylation of acyl chains, all of which can enhance PmB resistance in other bacteria. We conclude that PmB resistance, particularly in  isolates from chronic respiratory infections, is a common phenomenon, and that  lipid A displays modifications that may confer increased resistance to polymyxins and potentially other antimicrobial peptides."	
28170403		PloS one	Longitudinal assessment of sputum microbiome by sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene in non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis patients.	"Bronchiectasis is accompanied by chronic bronchial infection that may drive disease progression. However, the evidence base for antibiotic therapy is limited. DNA based methods offer better identification and quantification of microbial constituents of sputum than standard clinical culture and may help inform patient management strategies. Our study objective was to determine the longitudinal variability of the non-cystic fibrosis (CF) bronchiectasis microbiome in sputum with respect to clinical variables. Eighty-five patients with non-CF bronchiectasis and daily sputum production were recruited from outpatient clinics and followed for six months. Monthly sputum samples and clinical measurements were taken, together with additional samples during exacerbations. 16S rRNA gene sequencing of the sputum microbiota was successful for 381 samples from 76 patients and analysed in conjunction with clinical data. Microbial communities were highly individual in composition and stability, usually with limited diversity and often containing multiple pathogens. When compared to DNA sequencing, microbial culture had restricted sensitivity in identifying common pathogens such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis. With some exceptions, community characteristics showed poor correlations with clinical features including underlying disease, antibiotic use and exacerbations, with the subject showing the strongest association with community structure. When present, the pathogens mucoid Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Haemophilus influenzae may also shape the structure of the rest of the microbial community. The use of microbial community analysis of sputum added to information from microbial culture. A simple model of exacerbations driven by bacterial overgrowth was not supported, suggesting a need for revision of principles for antibiotic therapy. In individual patients, the management of chronic bronchial infection may be improved by therapy specific to their microbiome, taking into account pathogen load, community stability, and acute and chronic community responses to antibiotics."	
31470114		Cellular and molecular gastroenterology and hepatology	Impaired Intestinal Farnesoid X Receptor Signaling in Cystic Fibrosis Mice.	"The bile acid (BA)-activated farnesoid X receptor (FXR) controls hepatic BA synthesis and cell proliferation via the intestinal hormone fibroblast growth factor 19. Because cystic fibrosis (CF) is associated with intestinal dysbiosis, anomalous BA handling, and biliary cirrhosis, we investigated FXR signaling in CF. Intestinal and hepatic expression of FXR target genes and inflammation markers was assessed in Cftr null mice and controls. Localization of the apical sodium-dependent BA transporter was assessed, and BAs in gastrointestinal tissues were analyzed. The CF microbiota was characterized and FXR signaling was investigated in intestinal tissue and organoids. Ileal murine fibroblast growth factor 19 ortholog (Fgf15) expression was strongly reduced in CF mice, compared with controls. Luminal BA levels and localization of apical sodium-dependent BA transporter was not affected, and BAs induced Fgf15 up to normal levels in CF ileum, ex vivo, and CF organoids. CF mice showed a dysbiosis that was associated with a marked up-regulation of genes involved in host-microbe interactions, including those involved in mucin glycosylation, antimicrobial defense, and Toll-like receptor signaling. Antibiotic treatment reversed the up-regulation of inflammatory markers and restored intestinal FXR signaling in CF mice. Conversely, FXR-dependent gene induction in ileal tissue and organoids was repressed by bacterial lipopolysaccharide and proinflammatory cytokines, respectively. Loss of intestinal FXR activity was associated with a markedly blunted hepatic trophic response to oral BA supplementation, and with impaired repression of Cyp7a1, the gene encoding the rate-limiting enzyme in BA synthesis. In CF mice, the gut microbiota represses intestinal FXR activity, and, consequently, FXR-dependent hepatic cell proliferation and feedback control of BA synthesis."	
33397475		Systematic reviews	Comparison of respiratory pathogen colonization and antimicrobial susceptibility in people with cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis versus non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis: a protocol for a systematic review.	"Both cystic fibrosis (CF) and non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis are characterized by permanent bronchial dilation, impaired mucociliary clearance, and development of chronic colonization and infection. Although the major airway microbiota in both CF and non-CF bronchiectasis may be similar, there are some differences in clinical and microbiologic features. There may also be differences in antibiotic susceptibility patterns between the CF and non-CF populations. Therefore, analysis and comparison of the microbiota and antibiotic susceptibility pattern in CF bronchiectasis versus non-CF bronchiectasis would help to improve the management of both conditions. Two authors will independently search the electronic databases PubMed, EMBASE, the Cochrane Library, and LIVIVO, for studies reporting bacterial colonization of the respiratory tract in adults and children diagnosed with bronchiectasis in either CF or non-CF. We will include studies examining any respiratory tract specimen, using conventional bacterial culture or other specialized techniques such as molecular methods. We will also examine the antimicrobial susceptibility patterns in people with CF bronchiectasis versus non-CF bronchiectasis. The authors will independently assess the risk of bias in each included study using the Newcastle Ottawa Scale (NOS). We will present the data with descriptive statistics and provide pooled estimates of outcomes, wherever it is feasible to perform meta-analysis. Heterogeneity in studies will be explored by visual inspection of forest plots as well as using the Higgins and Thompson I method. We will contact the corresponding authors of studies where data is/are missing and try to obtain the missing data. We will undertake sensitivity analysis to explore the impact of study quality and subgroup analysis based on pre-set criteria. We will prepare a summary of findings' table and assess the confidence in the evidence using the GRADE methodology. To date, there are no locally applicable evidence-based guidelines for antimicrobial treatment of non-CF bronchiectasis patients. In general, treatment is based on extrapolation of evidence in people with CF bronchiectasis. An insight into the microbiota and antimicrobial susceptibility patterns in the two conditions would facilitate appropriate rather than empiric antimicrobial therapy and hopefully reduce the burden of antimicrobial resistance created by rampant usage of antibiotics. The protocol has been registered in PROSPERO on July 26, 2020 (PROSPERO registration number: CRD42020193859 )."	
35338335		The ISME journal	Pseudomonas aeruginosa polysaccharide Psl supports airway microbial community development.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa dominates the complex polymicrobial cystic fibrosis (CF) airway and is a leading cause of death in persons with CF. Oral streptococcal colonization has been associated with stable CF lung function. However, no studies have demonstrated how Streptococcus salivarius, the most abundant streptococcal species found in individuals with stable CF lung disease, potentially improves lung function or becomes incorporated into the CF airway biofilm. By utilizing a two-species biofilm model to probe interactions between S. salivarius and P. aeruginosa, we discovered that the P. aeruginosa exopolysaccharide Psl promoted S. salivarius biofilm formation. Further, we identified a S. salivarius maltose-binding protein (MalE) that is required for promotion of biofilm formation both in vitro and in a Drosophila melanogaster co-infection model. Finally, we demonstrate that promotion of dual biofilm formation with S. salivarius is common among environmental and clinical P. aeruginosa isolates. Overall, our data supports a model in which S. salivarius uses a sugar-binding protein to interact with P. aeruginosa exopolysaccharide, which may be a strategy by which S. salivarius establishes itself within the CF airway microbial community."	
37507809		Microbiome	Resistome expansion in disease-associated human gut microbiomes.	"The resistome, the collection of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) in a microbiome, is increasingly recognised as relevant to the development of clinically relevant antibiotic resistance. Many metagenomic studies have reported resistome differences between groups, often in connection with disease and/or antibiotic treatment. However, the consistency of resistome associations with antibiotic- and non-antibiotic-treated diseases has not been established. In this study, we re-analysed human gut microbiome data from 26 case-control studies to assess the link between disease and the resistome. The human gut resistome is highly variable between individuals both within and between studies, but may also vary significantly between case and control groups even in the absence of large taxonomic differences. We found that for diseases commonly treated with antibiotics, namely cystic fibrosis and diarrhoea, patient microbiomes had significantly elevated ARG abundances compared to controls. Disease-associated resistome expansion was found even when ARG abundance was high in controls, suggesting ongoing and additive ARG acquisition in disease-associated strains. We also found a trend for increased ARG abundance in cases from some studies on diseases that are not treated with antibiotics, such as colorectal cancer. Diseases commonly treated with antibiotics are associated with expanded gut resistomes, suggesting that historical exposure to antibiotics has exerted considerable selective pressure for ARG acquisition in disease-associated strains. Video Abstract."	
35608904		JCI insight	"IL-13-programmed airway tuft cells produce PGE2, which promotes CFTR-dependent mucociliary function."	"Chronic type 2 (T2) inflammatory diseases of the respiratory tract are characterized by mucus overproduction and disordered mucociliary function, which are largely attributed to the effects of IL-13 on common epithelial cell types (mucus secretory and ciliated cells). The role of rare cells in airway T2 inflammation is less clear, though tuft cells have been shown to be critical in the initiation of T2 immunity in the intestine. Using bulk and single-cell RNA sequencing of airway epithelium and mouse modeling, we found that IL-13 expanded and programmed airway tuft cells toward eicosanoid metabolism and that tuft cell deficiency led to a reduction in airway prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) concentration. Allergic airway epithelia bore a signature of PGE2 activation, and PGE2 activation led to cystic fibrosis transmembrane receptor-dependent ion and fluid secretion and accelerated mucociliary transport. These data reveal a role for tuft cells in regulating epithelial mucociliary function in the allergic airway."	
33460570		The Lancet. Respiratory medicine	Lung microbiota predict chronic rejection in healthy lung transplant recipients: a prospective cohort study.	"Alterations in the respiratory microbiome are common in chronic lung diseases, correlate with decreased lung function, and have been associated with disease progression. The clinical significance of changes in the respiratory microbiome after lung transplant, specifically those related to development of chronic lung allograft dysfunction (CLAD), are unknown. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of lung microbiome characteristics in healthy lung transplant recipients on subsequent CLAD-free survival. We prospectively studied a cohort of lung transplant recipients at the University of Michigan (Ann Arbor, MI, USA). We analysed characteristics of the respiratory microbiome in acellular bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) collected from asymptomatic patients during per-protocol surveillance bronchoscopy 1 year after lung transplantation. For our primary endpoint, we evaluated a composite of development of CLAD or death at 500 days after the 1-year surveillance bronchoscopy. Our primary microbiome predictor variables were bacterial DNA burden (total 16S rRNA gene copies per mL of BALF, quantified via droplet digital PCR) and bacterial community composition (determined by bacterial 16S rRNA gene sequencing). Patients' lung function was followed serially at least every 3 months by spirometry, and CLAD was diagnosed according to International Society of Heart and Lung Transplant 2019 guidelines. We analysed BALF from 134 patients, collected during 1-year post-transplant surveillance bronchoscopy between Oct 21, 2005, and Aug 25, 2017. Within 500 days of follow-up from the time of BALF sampling, 24 (18%) patients developed CLAD, five (4%) died before confirmed development of CLAD, and 105 (78%) patients remained CLAD-free with complete follow-up. Lung bacterial burden was predictive of CLAD development or death within 500 days of the surveillance bronchoscopy, after controlling for demographic and clinical factors, including immunosuppression and bacterial culture results, in a multivariable survival model. This relationship was evident when burden was analysed as a continuous variable (per log increase in burden, HR 2·49 [95% CI 1·38-4·48], p=0·0024) or by tertiles (middle vs lowest bacterial burden tertile, HR 4·94 [1·25-19·42], p=0·022; and highest vs lowest, HR 10·56 [2·53-44·08], p=0·0012). In patients who developed CLAD or died, composition of the lung bacterial community significantly differed to that in patients who survived and remained CLAD-free (on permutational multivariate analysis of variance, p=0·047 at the taxonomic level of family), although differences in community composition were associated with bacterial burden. No individual bacterial taxa were definitively associated with CLAD development or death. Among asymptomatic lung transplant recipients at 1-year post-transplant, increased lung bacterial burden is predictive of chronic rejection and death. The lung microbiome represents an understudied and potentially modifiable risk factor for lung allograft dysfunction. US National Institutes of Health, Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Brian and Mary Campbell and Elizabeth Campbell Carr research gift fund."	
38271553		American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine	The Lung Microbiome Predicts Mortality and Response to Azithromycin in Lung Transplant Recipients with Chronic Rejection.	"Chronic lung allograft dysfunction (CLAD) is the leading cause of death after lung transplant, and azithromycin has variable efficacy in CLAD. The lung microbiome is a risk factor for developing CLAD, but the relationship between lung dysbiosis, pulmonary inflammation, and allograft dysfunction remains poorly understood. Whether lung microbiota predict outcomes or modify treatment response  CLAD is unknown.  To determine whether lung microbiota predict post-CLAD outcomes and clinical response to azithromycin.  Retrospective cohort study using acellular BAL fluid prospectively collected from recipients of lung transplant within 90 days of CLAD onset. Lung microbiota were characterized using 16S rRNA gene sequencing and droplet digital PCR. In two additional cohorts, causal relationships of dysbiosis and inflammation were evaluated by comparing lung microbiota with CLAD-associated cytokines and measuring  growth in sterilized BAL fluid.  Patients with higher bacterial burden had shorter post-CLAD survival, independent of CLAD phenotype, azithromycin treatment, and relevant covariates. Azithromycin treatment improved survival in patients with high bacterial burden but had negligible impact on patients with low or moderate burden. Lung bacterial burden was positively associated with CLAD-associated cytokines, and  growth of  was augmented in BAL fluid from transplant recipients with CLAD.  In recipients of lung transplants with chronic rejection, increased lung bacterial burden is an independent risk factor for mortality and predicts clinical response to azithromycin. Lung bacterial dysbiosis is associated with alveolar inflammation and may be promoted by underlying lung allograft dysfunction."	
34031546		The ISME journal	Phosphorus stress induces the synthesis of novel glycolipids in Pseudomonas aeruginosa that confer protection against a last-resort antibiotic.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a nosocomial pathogen with a prevalence in immunocompromised individuals and is particularly abundant in the lung microbiome of cystic fibrosis patients. A clinically important adaptation for bacterial pathogens during infection is their ability to survive and proliferate under phosphorus-limited growth conditions. Here, we demonstrate that P. aeruginosa adapts to P-limitation by substituting membrane glycerophospholipids with sugar-containing glycolipids through a lipid renovation pathway involving a phospholipase and two glycosyltransferases. Combining bacterial genetics and multi-omics (proteomics, lipidomics and metatranscriptomic analyses), we show that the surrogate glycolipids monoglucosyldiacylglycerol and glucuronic acid-diacylglycerol are synthesised through the action of a new phospholipase (PA3219) and two glycosyltransferases (PA3218 and PA0842). Comparative genomic analyses revealed that this pathway is strictly conserved in all P. aeruginosa strains isolated from a range of clinical and environmental settings and actively expressed in the metatranscriptome of cystic fibrosis patients. Importantly, this phospholipid-to-glycolipid transition comes with significant ecophysiological consequence in terms of antibiotic sensitivity. Mutants defective in glycolipid synthesis survive poorly when challenged with polymyxin B, a last-resort antibiotic for treating multi-drug resistant P. aeruginosa. Thus, we demonstrate an intriguing link between adaptation to environmental stress (nutrient availability) and antibiotic resistance, mediated through membrane lipid renovation that is an important new facet in our understanding of the ecophysiology of this bacterium in the lung microbiome of cystic fibrosis patients."	
32540174		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	The fungal airway microbiome in cystic fibrosis and non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis.	"The prevalence of fungal disease in cystic fibrosis (CF) and non-CF bronchiectasis is increasing and the clinical spectrum is widening. Poor sensitivity and a lack of standard diagnostic criteria renders interpretation of culture results challenging. In order to develop effective management strategies, a more accurate and comprehensive understanding of the airways fungal microbiome is required. The study aimed to use DNA sequences from sputum to assess the load and diversity of fungi in adults with CF and non-CF bronchiectasis. Next generation sequencing of the ITS2 region was used to examine fungal community composition (n = 176) by disease and underlying clinical subgroups including allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis, non-tuberculous mycobacteria, and fungal bronchitis. Patients with no known active fungal disease were included as disease controls. ITS2 sequencing greatly increased the detection of fungi from sputum. In patients with CF fungal diversity was lower, while burden was higher than those with non-CF bronchiectasis. The most common operational taxonomic unit (OTU) in patients with CF was Candida parapsilosis (20.4%), whereas in non-CF bronchiectasis sputum Candida albicans (21.8%) was most common. CF patients with overt fungal bronchitis were dominated by Aspergillus spp., Exophiala spp., Candida parapsilosis or Scedosporium spp. This study provides a framework to more accurately characterize the extended spectrum of fungal airways diseases in adult suppurative lung diseases."	
34588194		The European respiratory journal	"{'i': ['R', 'othia mucilaginosa'], '#text': 'is an anti-inflammatory bacterium in the respiratory tract of patients with chronic lung disease.'}"	"Chronic airway inflammation is the main driver of pathogenesis in respiratory diseases such as severe asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cystic fibrosis (CF) and bronchiectasis. While the role of common pathogens in airway inflammation is widely recognised, the influence of other microbiota members is still poorly understood. We hypothesised that the lung microbiota contains bacteria with immunomodulatory activity which modulate net levels of immune activation by key respiratory pathogens. Therefore, we assessed the immunomodulatory effect of several members of the lung microbiota frequently reported as present in CF lower respiratory tract samples. We show that , a common resident of the oral cavity that is also often detectable in the lower airways in chronic disease, has an inhibitory effect on pathogen- or lipopolysaccharide-induced pro-inflammatory responses,  (three-dimensional cell culture model) and  (mouse model). Furthermore, in a cohort of adults with bronchiectasis, the abundance of  species was negatively correlated with pro-inflammatory markers (interleukin (IL)-8 and IL-1β) and matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-1, MMP-8 and MMP-9 in sputum. Mechanistic studies revealed that  inhibits NF-κB pathway activation by reducing the phosphorylation of IκBα and consequently the expression of NF-κB target genes. These findings indicate that the presence of  in the lower airways potentially mitigates inflammation, which could in turn influence the severity and progression of chronic respiratory disorders."	
37717018		Nature communications	Bridging of host-microbiota tryptophan partitioning by the serotonin pathway in fungal pneumonia.	"The aromatic amino acid L-tryptophan (Trp) is essentially metabolized along the host and microbial pathways. While much is known about the role played by downstream metabolites of each pathways in intestinal homeostasis, their role in lung immune homeostasis is underappreciated. Here we have examined the role played by the Trp hydroxylase/5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) pathway in calibrating host and microbial Trp metabolism during Aspergillus fumigatus pneumonia. We found that 5-HT produced by mast cells essentially contributed to pathogen clearance and immune homeostasis in infection by promoting the host protective indoleamine-2,3-dioxygenase 1/kynurenine pathway and limiting the microbial activation of the indole/aryl hydrocarbon receptor pathway. This occurred via regulation of lung and intestinal microbiota and signaling pathways. 5-HT was deficient in the sputa of patients with Cystic fibrosis, while 5-HT supplementation restored the dysregulated Trp partitioning in murine disease. These findings suggest that 5-HT, by bridging host-microbiota Trp partitioning, may have clinical effects beyond its mood regulatory function in respiratory pathologies with an inflammatory component."	
34718713		Nucleic acids research	mBodyMap: a curated database for microbes across human body and their associations with health and diseases.	"mBodyMap is a curated database for microbes across the human body and their associations with health and diseases. Its primary aim is to promote the reusability of human-associated metagenomic data and assist with the identification of disease-associated microbes by consistently annotating the microbial contents of collected samples using state-of-the-art toolsets and manually curating the meta-data of corresponding human hosts. mBodyMap organizes collected samples based on their association with human diseases and body sites to enable cross-dataset integration and comparison. To help users find microbes of interest and visualize and compare their distributions and abundances/prevalence within different body sites and various diseases, the mBodyMap database is equipped with an intuitive interface and extensive graphical representations of the collected data. So far, it contains a total of 63 148 runs, including 14 401 metagenomes and 48 747 amplicons related to health and 56 human diseases, from within 22 human body sites across 136 projects. Also available in the database are pre-computed abundances and prevalence of 6247 species (belonging to 1645 genera) stratified by body sites and diseases. mBodyMap can be accessed at: https://mbodymap.microbiome.cloud."	
27537521		Journal of innate immunity	Innate Immunity in Cystic Fibrosis: Novel Pieces of the Puzzle.		
37487763		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	The lung microbiome in cystic fibrosis: A gap of knowledge still to be filled.		
38604888		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	The evolving focus of cystic fibrosis microbiome research.		
32341475		The ISME journal	Allelic polymorphism shapes community function in evolving Pseudomonas aeruginosa populations.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic pathogen that chronically infects the lungs of individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF) by forming antibiotic-resistant biofilms. Emergence of phenotypically diverse isolates within CF P. aeruginosa populations has previously been reported; however, the impact of heterogeneity on social behaviors and community function is poorly understood. Here we describe how this heterogeneity impacts on behavioral traits by evolving the strain PAO1 in biofilms grown in a synthetic sputum medium for 50 days. We measured social trait production and antibiotic tolerance, and used a metagenomic approach to analyze and assess genomic changes over the duration of the evolution experiment. We found that (i) evolutionary trajectories were reproducible in independently evolving populations; (ii) over 60% of genomic diversity occurred within the first 10 days of selection. We then focused on quorum sensing (QS), a well-studied P. aeruginosa trait that is commonly mutated in strains isolated from CF lungs. We found that at the population level, (i) evolution in sputum medium selected for decreased the production of QS and QS-dependent traits; (ii) there was a significant correlation between lasR mutant frequency, the loss of protease, and the 3O-C12-HSL signal, and an increase in resistance to clinically relevant β-lactam antibiotics, despite no previous antibiotic exposure. Overall, our findings provide insights into the effect of allelic polymorphism on community functions in diverse P. aeruginosa populations. Further, we demonstrate that P. aeruginosa population and evolutionary dynamics can impact on traits important for virulence and can lead to increased tolerance to β-lactam antibiotics."	
24401860		The ISME journal	"Breath gas metabolites and bacterial metagenomes from cystic fibrosis airways indicate active pH neutral 2,3-butanedione fermentation."	"The airways of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients are chronically colonized by patient-specific polymicrobial communities. The conditions and nutrients available in CF lungs affect the physiology and composition of the colonizing microbes. Recent work in bioreactors has shown that the fermentation product 2,3-butanediol mediates cross-feeding between some fermenting bacteria and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and that this mechanism increases bacterial current production. To examine bacterial fermentation in the respiratory tract, breath gas metabolites were measured and several metagenomes were sequenced from CF and non-CF volunteers. 2,3-butanedione was produced in nearly all respiratory tracts. Elevated levels in one patient decreased during antibiotic treatment, and breath concentrations varied between CF patients at the same time point. Some patients had high enough levels of 2,3-butanedione to irreversibly damage lung tissue. Antibiotic therapy likely dictates the activities of 2,3-butanedione-producing microbes, which suggests a need for further study with larger sample size. Sputum microbiomes were dominated by P. aeruginosa, Streptococcus spp. and Rothia mucilaginosa, and revealed the potential for 2,3-butanedione biosynthesis. Genes encoding 2,3-butanedione biosynthesis were disproportionately abundant in Streptococcus spp, whereas genes for consumption of butanedione pathway products were encoded by P. aeruginosa and R. mucilaginosa. We propose a model where low oxygen conditions in CF lung lead to fermentation and a decrease in pH, triggering 2,3-butanedione fermentation to avoid lethal acidification. We hypothesize that this may also increase phenazine production by P. aeruginosa, increasing reactive oxygen species and providing additional electron acceptors to CF microbes."	
28030619		PloS one	Effects of Propidium Monoazide (PMA) Treatment on Mycobiome and Bacteriome Analysis of Cystic Fibrosis Airways during Exacerbation.	"Propidium monoazide (PMA)-pretreatment has increasingly been applied to remove the bias from dead or damaged cell artefacts, which could impact the microbiota analysis by high-throughput sequencing. Our study aimed to determine whether a PMA-pretreatment coupled with high-throughput sequencing analysis provides a different picture of the airway mycobiome and bacteriome. We compared deep-sequencing data of mycobiota and microbiota of 15 sputum samples from 5 cystic fibrosis (CF) patients with and without prior PMA-treatment of the DNA-extracts. PMA-pretreatment had no significant effect on the entire and abundant bacterial community (genera expressed as operational taxonomic units (OTUs) with a relative abundance greater than or equal to 1%), but caused a significant difference in the intermediate community (less than 1%) when analyzing the alpha biodiversity Simpson index (p = 0.03). Regarding PMA impact on the airway mycobiota evaluated for the first time here; no significant differences in alpha diversity indexes between PMA-treated and untreated samples were observed. Regarding beta diversity analysis, the intermediate communities also differed more dramatically than the total and abundant ones when studying both mycobiome and bacteriome. Our results showed that only the intermediate (or low abundance) population diversity is impacted by PMA-treatment, and therefore that abundant taxa are mostly viable during acute exacerbation in CF. Given such a cumbersome protocol (PMA-pretreatment coupled with high-throughput sequencing), we discuss its potential interest within the follow-up of CF patients. Further studies using PMA-pretreatment are warranted to improve our ""omic"" knowledge of the CF airways."	
36403022		Respiratory research	Altered fecal microbiome and metabolome in adult patients with non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis.	"Emerging experimental and epidemiological evidence highlights a crucial cross-talk between the intestinal flora and the lungs, termed the ""gut-lung axis"". However, the function of the gut microbiota in bronchiectasis remains undefined. In this study, we aimed to perform a multi-omics-based approach to identify the gut microbiome and metabolic profiles in patients with bronchiectasis. Fecal samples collected from non-CF bronchiectasis patients (BE group, n = 61) and healthy volunteers (HC group, n = 37) were analyzed by 16 S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) sequencing. The BE group was divided into two groups based on their clinical status: acute exacerbation (AE group, n = 31) and stable phase (SP group, n = 30). Further, metabolome (lipid chromatography-mass spectrometry, LC-MS) analyses were conducted in randomly selected patients (n = 29) and healthy volunteers (n = 31). Decreased fecal microbial diversity and differential microbial and metabolic compositions were observed in bronchiectasis patients. Correlation analyses indicated associations between the differential genera and clinical parameters such as bronchiectasis severity index (BSI). Disease-associated gut microbiota was screened out, with eight genera exhibited high accuracy in distinguishing SP patients from HCs in the discovery cohort and validation cohort using a random forest model. Further correlation networks were applied to illustrate the relations connecting disease-associated genera and metabolites. The study uncovered the relationships among the decreased fecal microbial diversity, differential microbial and metabolic compositions in bronchiectasis patients by performing a multi-omics-based approach. It is the first study to characterize the gut microbiome and metabolome in bronchiectasis, and to uncover the gut microbiota's potentiality as biomarkers for bronchiectasis. This study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT04490447."	
25440054		Cell metabolism	Specialized metabolites from the microbiome in health and disease.	"The microbiota, and the genes that comprise its microbiome, play key roles in human health. Host-microbe interactions affect immunity, metabolism, development, and behavior, and dysbiosis of gut bacteria contributes to disease. Despite advances in correlating changes in the microbiota with various conditions, specific mechanisms of host-microbiota signaling remain largely elusive. We discuss the synthesis of microbial metabolites, their absorption, and potential physiological effects on the host. We propose that the effects of specialized metabolites may explain present knowledge gaps in linking the gut microbiota to biological host mechanisms during initial colonization, and in health and disease."	
36000724		mSystems	Supplemental Oxygen Alters the Airway Microbiome in Cystic Fibrosis.	"Features of the airway microbiome in persons with cystic fibrosis (pwCF) are correlated with disease progression. Microbes have traditionally been classified for their ability to tolerate oxygen. It is unknown whether supplemental oxygen, a common medical intervention, affects the airway microbiome of pwCF. We hypothesized that hyperoxia significantly impacts the pulmonary microbiome in cystic fibrosis. In this study, we cultured spontaneously expectorated sputum from pwCF in artificial sputum medium under 21%, 50%, and 100% oxygen conditions using a previously validated model system that recapitulates microbial community composition in uncultured sputum. Culture aliquots taken at 24, 48, and 72 h, along with uncultured sputum, underwent shotgun metagenomic sequencing with absolute abundance values obtained with the use of spike-in bacteria. Raw sequencing files were processed using the bioBakery pipeline to determine changes in taxonomy, predicted function, antimicrobial resistance genes, and mobile genetic elements. Hyperoxia reduced absolute microbial load, species richness, and diversity. Hyperoxia reduced absolute abundance of specific microbes, including facultative anaerobes such as  and some Streptococcus species, with minimal impact on canonical CF pathogens such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus. The effect size of hyperoxia on predicted functional pathways was stronger than that on taxonomy. Large changes in microbial cooccurrence networks were noted. Hyperoxia exposure perturbs airway microbial communities in a manner well tolerated by key pathogens. Supplemental oxygen use may enable the growth of lung pathogens and should be further studied in the clinical setting.  The airway microbiome in persons with cystic fibrosis (pwCF) is correlated with lung function and disease severity. Supplemental oxygen use is common in more advanced CF, yet its role in perturbing airway microbial communities is unknown. By culturing sputum samples from pwCF under normal and elevated oxygen conditions, we found that increased oxygen led to reduced total numbers and diversity of microbes, with relative sparing of common CF pathogens such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus. Supplemental oxygen use may enable the growth of lung pathogens and should be further studied in the clinical setting."	
31364220		"Respirology (Carlton, Vic.)"	Composition of airway bacterial community correlates with chest HRCT in adults with bronchiectasis.	"In bronchiectasis (BE) not caused by cystic fibrosis, chronic, polymicrobial airway infection contributes to the underlying pathogenesis of disease. There is little information on whether bacterial community composition relates to clinical status. We determined the relationship between bacterial community composition, chest high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) scores and clinical markers in BE. A subgroup of BE patients from a previous cross-sectional study were analysed. Spontaneously expectorated sputum was analysed using culture-independent sequencing on the Roche 454-FLX platform covering the V1-V3 region of the 16S rRNA marker gene. Chest HRCT scans, multiple breath washout, spirometry and blood inflammatory markers were collected. Spearman's rank (r) correlation coefficient was used to assess relationships. Data from 21 patients were analysed (mean (SD) age: 64.0 (7.7); female : male 14:7; mean (SD) forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV ): 76.5 (17.2)). All bacterial community composition metrics (bacterial richness, diversity, evenness and dominance) correlated with percentage BE score, with more severe HRCT abnormality relating to lower bacterial richness, evenness and diversity (range r = -0.47 to -0.66; P < 0.05). Inflammation (C-reactive protein and white cell count) was greater in patients with lower diversity and richness (range r = -0.44 to -0.47; P < 0.05). Bacterial community characteristics did not correlate with lung function. This is the first study to indicate a relationship between bacterial community characteristics by 16S rRNA marker gene sequencing, structural damage as determined by chest HRCT and clinical measures in BE. The association between loss of diversity and chest HRCT severity suggests that bacterial dominance with pathogenic bacteria may contribute to disease pathology."	
29312187		Frontiers in microbiology	Fungal Microbiota in Chronic Airway Inflammatory Disease and Emerging Relationships with the Host Immune Response.	"The respiratory tract is a complex system that is inhabited by niche-specific communities of microbes including bacteria, fungi, and viruses. These complex microbial assemblages are in constant contact with the mucosal immune system and play a critical role in airway health and immune homeostasis. Changes in the composition and diversity of airway microbiota are frequently observed in patients with chronic inflammatory diseases including chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS), cystic fibrosis, allergy, and asthma. While the bacterial microbiome of the upper and lower airways has been the focus of many recent studies, the contribution of fungal microbiota to inflammation is an emerging research interest. Within the context of allergic airway disease, fungal products are important allergens and fungi are potent inducers of inflammation. In addition, murine models have provided experimental evidence that fungal microbiota in peripheral organs, notably the gastrointestinal (GI) tract, influence pulmonary health. In this review, we explore the role of the respiratory and GI microbial communities in chronic airway inflammatory disease development with a specific focus on fungal microbiome interactions with the airway immune system and fungal-bacterial interactions that likely contribute to inflammatory disease. These findings are discussed in the context of clinical and immunological features of fungal-mediated disease in CRS, allergy, and asthmatic patients. While this field is still nascent, emerging evidence suggests that dysbiotic fungal and bacterial microbiota interact to drive or exacerbate chronic airway inflammatory disease."	
34669257		Molecular ecology resources	Lysis-Hi-C as a method to study polymicrobial communities and eDNA.	"Microbes interact in natural communities in a spatially structured manner, particularly in biofilms and polymicrobial infections. While next generation sequencing approaches provide powerful insights into diversity, metabolic capacity, and mutational profiles of these communities, they generally fail to recover in situ spatial proximity between distinct genotypes in the interactome. Hi-C is a promising method that has assisted in analysing complex microbiomes, by creating chromatin cross-links in cells, that aid in identifying adjacent DNA, to improve de novo assembly. This study explored a modified Hi-C approach involving an initial lysis phase prior to DNA cross-linking, to test whether adjacent cell chromatin can be cross-linked, anticipating that this could provide a new avenue for study of spatial-mutational dynamics in structured microbial communities. An artificial polymicrobial mixture of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Staphylococcus aureus, and Escherichia coli was lysed for 1-18 h, then prepared for Hi-C. A murine biofilm infection model was treated with sonication, mechanical lysis, or chemical lysis before Hi-C. Bioinformatic analyses of resulting Hi-C interspecies chromatin links showed that while microbial species differed from one another, generally lysis significantly increased links between species and increased the distance of Hi-C links within species, while also increasing novel plasmid-chromosome links. The success of this modified lysis-Hi-C protocol in creating extracellular DNA links is a promising first step toward a new lysis-Hi-C based method to recover genotypic microgeography in polymicrobial communities, with potential future applications in diseases with localized resistance, such as cystic fibrosis lung infections and chronic diabetic ulcers."	
30263961		Science advances	Niche partitioning of a pathogenic microbiome driven by chemical gradients.	"Environmental microbial communities are stratified by chemical gradients that shape the structure and function of these systems. Similar chemical gradients exist in the human body, but how they influence these microbial systems is more poorly understood. Understanding these effects can be particularly important for dysbiotic shifts in microbiome structure that are often associated with disease. We show that pH and oxygen strongly partition the microbial community from a diseased human lung into two mutually exclusive communities of pathogens and anaerobes. Antimicrobial treatment disrupted this chemical partitioning, causing complex death, survival, and resistance outcomes that were highly dependent on the individual microorganism and on community stratification. These effects were mathematically modeled, enabling a predictive understanding of this complex polymicrobial system. Harnessing the power of these chemical gradients could be a drug-free method of shaping microbial communities in the human body from undesirable dysbiotic states."	
37632008		Viruses	"{'i': 'Achromobacter', '#text': 'Compounding  Phages for Therapeutic Applications.'}"	"species colonization of Cystic Fibrosis respiratory airways is an increasing concern. Two adult patients with Cystic Fibrosis colonized by  CF418 or  CF116 experienced fatal exacerbations.  spp. are naturally resistant to several antibiotics. Therefore, phages could be valuable as therapeutics for the control of . In this study, thirteen lytic phages were isolated and characterized at the morphological and genomic levels for potential future use in phage therapy. They are presented here as the  Kumeyaay phage collection. Six distinct  phage genome clusters were identified based on a comprehensive phylogenetic analysis of the Kumeyaay collection as well as the publicly available  phages. The infectivity of all phages in the Kumeyaay collection was tested in 23  clinical isolates; 78% of these isolates were lysed by at least one phage. A cryptic prophage was induced in  CF418 when infected with some of the lytic phages. This prophage genome was characterized and is presented as  phage CF418-P1. Prophage induction during lytic phage preparation for therapy interventions require further exploration. Large-scale production of phages and removal of endotoxins using an octanol-based procedure resulted in a phage concentrate of 1 × 10 plaque-forming units per milliliter with an endotoxin concentration of 65 endotoxin units per milliliter, which is below the Food and Drugs Administration recommended maximum threshold for human administration. This study provides a comprehensive framework for the isolation, bioinformatic characterization, and safe production of phages to kill  spp. in order to potentially manage Cystic Fibrosis (CF) pulmonary infections."	
38804915		Food & function	"{'i': 'In vitro', '#text': 'screening of the impact of dietary prebiotic components, probiotic strains, and their symbiotic combinations on colonic microbiota in children with cystic fibrosis.'}"	"Children with Cystic Fibrosis (CF) are more likely to have intestinal dysbiosis due to recurrent antibiotic therapy and the conventional hypercaloric diet administered to them. This study aimed at evaluating the effect of isolated prebiotic components and probiotic strains, and their combinations as potential synbiotics, on the intestinal microbiota of CF children. A static  colonic fermentation model was used by colonizing vials with faecal inoculum, a culture medium, and the substrates to be tested. Post treatment, aliquots were taken to determine ammonium, lactate, and short-chain fatty acids production and to profile the microbiota composition by 16s rRNA sequencing. At genus level,  decreased (15.8%) with the treatment pectin + , followed by the beta-glucan +  (15.5%). Inversely, the most increase in Bacteroides (44%) was obtained by the treatment with Pectin + . Lactate and acetic acid production was significantly increased with prebiotics and their combinations with  and . In conclusion, the use of beta-glucan and pectin in combination with probiotic strains from the  family suggest potential to modulate dysbiosis and metabolic activity on CF colonic microbiota, encouraging further studies in animal studies or clinical settings to confirm the findings ."	
32295774		BMJ open	"Evaluating the Alimentary and Respiratory Tracts in Health and disease (EARTH) research programme: a protocol for prospective, longitudinal, controlled, observational studies in children with chronic disease at an Australian tertiary paediatric hospital."	"Chronic gastrointestinal and respiratory conditions of childhood can have long-lasting physical, psychosocial and economic effects on children and their families. Alterations in diet and intestinal and respiratory microbiomes may have important implications for physical and psychosocial health. Diet influences the intestinal microbiome and should be considered when exploring disease-specific alterations. The concepts of gut-brain and gut-lung axes provide novel perspectives for examining chronic childhood disease(s). We established the 'valuating the limentary and espiratory racts in ealth and disease' (EARTH) research programme to provide a structured, holistic evaluation of children with chronic gastrointestinal and/or respiratory conditions. The EARTH programme provides a framework for a series of prospective, longitudinal, controlled, observational studies (comprised of individual substudies), conducted at an Australian tertiary paediatric hospital (the methodology is applicable to other settings). Children with a chronic gastrointestinal and/or respiratory condition will be compared with age and gender matched healthy controls (HC) across a 12-month period. The following will be collected at baseline, 6 and 12 months: (i) stool, (ii) oropharyngeal swab/sputum, (iii) semi-quantitative food frequency questionnaire, (iv) details of disease symptomatology, (v) health-related quality of life and (vi) psychosocial factors. Data on the intestinal and respiratory microbiomes and diet will be compared between children with a condition and HC. Correlations between dietary intake (energy, macro-nutrients and micro-nutrients), intestinal and respiratory microbiomes within each group will be explored. Data on disease symptomatology, quality of life and psychosocial factors will be compared between condition and HC cohorts.Results will be hypothesis-generating and direct future focussed studies. There is future potential for direct translation into clinical care, as diet is a highly modifiable factor. Ethics approval: Sydney Children's Hospitals Network Human Research Ethics Committee (HREC/18/SCHN/26). Results will be presented at international conferences and published in peer-reviewed journals. NCT04071314."	
29261779		PloS one	Median regression spline modeling of longitudinal FEV1 measurements in cystic fibrosis (CF) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) patients.	"Clinical phenotyping, therapeutic investigations as well as genomic, airway secretion metabolomic and metagenomic investigations can benefit from robust, nonlinear modeling of FEV1 in individual subjects. We demonstrate the utility of measuring FEV1 dynamics in representative cystic fibrosis (CF) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) populations. Individual FEV1 data from CF and COPD subjects were modeled by estimating median regression splines and their predicted first and second derivatives. Classes were created from variables that capture the dynamics of these curves in both cohorts. Nine FEV1 dynamic variables were identified from the splines and their predicted derivatives in individuals with CF (n = 177) and COPD (n = 374). Three FEV1 dynamic classes (i.e. stable, intermediate and hypervariable) were generated and described using these variables from both cohorts. In the CF cohort, the FEV1 hypervariable class (HV) was associated with a clinically unstable, female-dominated phenotypes while stable FEV1 class (S) individuals were highly associated with the male-dominated milder clinical phenotype. In the COPD cohort, associations were found between the FEV1 dynamic classes, the COPD GOLD grades, with exacerbation frequency and symptoms. Nonlinear modeling of FEV1 with splines provides new insights and is useful in characterizing CF and COPD clinical phenotypes."	
24614401		Scientific reports	Modeling the impact of antibiotic exposure on human microbiota.	"Human-associated microbial communities play important roles in health and disease. Antibiotic administration is arguably one of the most important modifiable determinants of the composition of the human microbiota. However, quantitatively modeling antibiotic use to account for its impact on microbial community dynamics presents a challenge. We used antibiotic therapy of chronic lung infection in persons with cystic fibrosis as a model system to assess the influence of key variables of therapy on measures of microbial community perturbation. We constructed multivariate linear mixed models with bacterial community diversity as the outcome measure and various scales of antibiotic weighting as predictors, while controlling for other variables. Antibiotic weighting consisted of three components: (i) dosing duration; (ii) timing of administration relative to sample collection; and (iii) antibiotic type and route of administration. Antibiotic weighting based on total dose and proximity to the time of sampling was most predictive of bacterial community change. Using this model to control for antibiotic use enabled the identification of other significant independent predictors of microbial community diversity such as dominant taxon, disease stage, and gender. Quantitative modeling of antibiotic use is critical in understanding the relationships between human microbiota and disease treatment and progression."	
25992575		PloS one	Reduced bacterial colony count of anaerobic bacteria is associated with a worsening in lung clearance index and inflammation in cystic fibrosis.	"Anaerobic bacteria have been identified in abundance in the airways of cystic fibrosis (CF) subjects. The impact their presence and abundance has on lung function and inflammation is unclear. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between the colony count of aerobic and anaerobic bacteria, lung clearance index (LCI), spirometry and C-Reactive Protein (CRP) in patients with CF. Sputum and blood were collected from CF patients at a single cross-sectional visit when clinically stable. Community composition and bacterial colony counts were analysed using extended aerobic and anaerobic culture. Patients completed spirometry and a multiple breath washout (MBW) test to obtain LCI. An inverse correlation between colony count of aerobic bacteria (n = 41, r = -0.35; p = 0.02), anaerobic bacteria (n = 41, r = -0.44, p = 0.004) and LCI was observed. There was an inverse correlation between colony count of anaerobic bacteria and CRP (n = 25, r = -0.44, p = 0.03) only. The results of this study demonstrate that a lower colony count of aerobic and anaerobic bacteria correlated with a worse LCI. A lower colony count of anaerobic bacteria also correlated with higher CRP levels. These results indicate that lower abundance of aerobic and anaerobic bacteria may reflect microbiota disruption and disease progression in the CF lung."	
28194750		Clinical and experimental immunology	Differential responses of human dendritic cells to metabolites from the oral/airway microbiome.	"Small molecule metabolites that are produced or altered by host-associated microbial communities are emerging as significant immune response modifiers. However, there is a key gap in our knowledge of how oral microbial metabolites affect the immune response. Here, we examined the effects of metabolites from five bacterial strains found commonly in the oral/airway microbial communities of humans. The five strains, each isolated from cystic fibrosis patient sputum, were Pseudomonas aeruginosa FLR01 non-mucoid (P1) and FLR02 mucoid (P2) forms, Streptococcus pneumoniae (Sp), S. salivarius (Ss) and Rothia mucilaginosa (Rm). The effect of bacterial metabolites on dendritic cell (DC) activation, T cell priming and cytokine secretion was determined by exposing DCs to bacterial supernatants and individual metabolites of interest. Supernatants from P1 and P2 induced high levels of tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-α, interleukin (IL)-12 and IL-6 from DCs and primed T cells to secrete interferon (IFN)-γ, IL-22 compared to supernatants from Sp, Ss and Rm. Investigations into the composition of supernatants using gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy (GC-MS) revealed signature metabolites for each of the strains. Supernatants from P1 and P2 contained high levels of putrescine and glucose, while Sp and Ss contained high levels of 2,3-butanediol. The individual metabolites replicated the results of whole supernatants, although the magnitudes of their effects were reduced significantly. Altogether, our data demonstrate for the first time that the signature metabolites produced by different bacteria have different effects on DC functions. The identification of signature metabolites and their effects on the host immune system can provide mechanistic insights into diseases and may also be developed as biomarkers."	
29504898		BMC genomics	On Burkholderiales order microorganisms and cystic fibrosis in Russia.	"Microbes infecting cystic fibrosis patients' respiratory tract are important in determining patients' functional status. Representatives of Burkholderiales order are the most dangerous. The goal of our investigation was to reveal the diversity of Burkholderiales, define of their proportion in the microbiome of various parts of respiratory tract and determine the pathogenicity of the main representatives. In more than 500 cystic fibrosis patients, representing all Federal Regions of Russia, 34.0% were infected by Burkholderia cepacia complex (Bcc), 21.0% by Achromobacter spp. and 12.0% by Lautropia mirabilis. B. cenocepacia was the most numerous species among the Bcc (93.0%), and A. ruhlandii was the most numerous among Achromobacter spp. (58.0%). The most abundant genotype in Bcc was sequence type (ST) 709, and in Achromobacter spp. it was ST36. These STs constitute Russian epidemic strains. Whole genome sequencing of strains A. ruhlandii SCCH3:Ach33-1365 ST36 and B. cenocepacia GIMC4560:Bcn122 ST709 revealed huge resistomes and many virulence factors, which may explain the difficulties in eradicating these strains. An experience of less dangerous B. cenocepcia ST710 elimination was described. Massively parallel sequencing of 16S rDNA amplicons, including V1-V4 hypervariable regions, was used to definite ""healthy"" microbiome characteristics. Analysis of maxillary sinus lavage of 7 patients revealed infection with Proteobacteria of the same ST as pathogens from sputum, suggesting that the maxillary sinus is a source of infection in cystic fibrosis patients. Characterization of the Russian epidemic bacterial strains in the sputum and sinuses of cystic fibrosis patients have better defined the importance of Burkholderiales bacteria. This information may aid in the development of effective approaches for treatment of this disease."	
25710466		PloS one	Environment and colonisation sequence are key parameters driving cooperation and competition between Pseudomonas aeruginosa cystic fibrosis strains and oral commensal streptococci.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) patient airways harbour diverse microbial consortia that, in addition to the recognized principal pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa, include other bacteria commonly regarded as commensals. The latter include the oral (viridans) streptococci, which recent evidence indicates play an active role during infection of this environmentally diverse niche. As the interactions between inhabitants of the CF airway can potentially alter disease progression, it is important to identify key cooperators/competitors and environmental influences if therapeutic intervention is to be improved and pulmonary decline arrested. Importantly, we recently showed that virulence of the P. aeruginosa Liverpool Epidemic Strain (LES) could be potentiated by the Anginosus-group of streptococci (AGS). In the present study we explored the relationships between other viridans streptococci (Streptococcus oralis, Streptococcus mitis, Streptococcus gordonii and Streptococcus sanguinis) and the LES and observed that co-culture outcome was dependent upon inoculation sequence and environment. All four streptococcal species were shown to potentiate LES virulence factor production in co-culture biofilms. However, in the case of S. oralis interactions were environmentally determined; in air cooperation within a high cell density co-culture biofilm occurred together with stimulation of LES virulence factor production, while in an atmosphere containing added CO2 this species became a competitor antagonising LES growth through hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) production, significantly altering biofilm population dynamics and appearance. Streptococcus mitis, S. gordonii and S. sanguinis were also capable of H2O2 mediated inhibition of P. aeruginosa growth, but this was only visible when inoculated as a primary coloniser prior to introduction of the LES. Therefore, these observations, which are made in conditions relevant to the biology of CF disease pathogenesis, show that the pathogenic and colonisation potential of P. aeruginosa isolates can be modulated positively and negatively by the presence of oral commensal streptococci."	
31604089		Cellular and molecular gastroenterology and hepatology	"Bile Acids, Microbiota, and Cystic Fibrosis: Channeling Intestinal FXR Signals."		
31774321		Annals of the American Thoracic Society	Bacterial Community Variability: Outliers May Be Leading Us Astray.		
24586292		PloS one	Disrupted intestinal microbiota and intestinal inflammation in children with cystic fibrosis and its restoration with Lactobacillus GG: a randomised clinical trial.	"Intestinal inflammation is a hallmark of cystic fibrosis (CF). Administration of probiotics can reduce intestinal inflammation and the incidence of pulmonary exacerbations. We investigated the composition of intestinal microbiota in children with CF and analyzed its relationship with intestinal inflammation. We also investigated the microflora structure before and after Lactobacillus GG (LGG) administration in children with CF with and without antibiotic treatment. The intestinal microbiota were analyzed by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Intestinal inflammation was assessed by measuring fecal calprotectin (CLP) and rectal nitric oxide (rNO) production in children with CF as compared with healthy controls. We then carried out a small double-blind randomized clinical trial with LGG. Twenty-two children with CF children were enrolled in the study (median age, 7 years; range, 2-9 years). Fecal CLP and rNO levels were higher in children with CF than in healthy controls (184±146 µg/g vs. 52±46 µg/g; 18±15 vs. 2.6±1.2 µmol/L NO2 (-), respectively; P<0.01). Compared with healthy controls, children with CF had significantly different intestinal microbial core structures. The levels of Eubacterium rectale, Bacteroides uniformis, Bacteroides vulgatus, Bifidobacterium adolescentis, Bifidobacterium catenulatum, and Faecalibacterium prausnitzii were reduced in children with CF. A similar but more extreme pattern was observed in children with CF who were taking antibiotics. LGG administration reduced fecal CLP and partially restored intestinal microbiota. There was a significant correlation between reduced microbial richness and intestinal inflammation. CF causes qualitative and quantitative changes in intestinal microbiota, which may represent a novel therapeutic target in the treatment of CF. Administration of probiotics restored gut microbiota, supporting the efficacy of probiotics in reducing intestinal inflammation and pulmonary exacerbations. ClinicalTrials.gov NCT 01961661."	
24437409		Annals of the American Thoracic Society	The cystic fibrosis lung microbiome.	"The chronic colonization of the lower airways by bacterial pathogens is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). Pseudomonas aeruginosa is the most common CF pathogen, followed by Staphylococcus aureus. Improvements in airway clearance and more effective treatment of the conventional CF pathogens has led to the emergence of new airway pathogens such as Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Mycobacterium abscessus, and Achromobacter. More recently, it has become appreciated that the lower airways in patients with CF are colonized by a more complex polymicrobial community composed primarily of bacteria found in the upper respiratory tract. This includes obligate anaerobes, most commonly Prevotella. Expanded culturing methods and culture-independent molecular methods are being used to characterize the composition and dynamics of these polymicrobial communities in patients with CF. The contribution of the CF microbiome to airway disease is actively being investigated and will present new opportunities for disease management in CF. However, there remain many challenges that must be overcome if microbiome profiling is going to inform clinical practice."	
23847148		Pediatric pulmonology	Serum metabolomics indicate altered cellular energy metabolism in children with cystic fibrosis.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a multi-system disease affecting multiple organs and cells besides the respiratory system. Metabolomic profiling allows simultaneous detection of biochemicals originating from cells, organs, or exogenous origin that may be valuable for monitoring of disease severity or in diagnosis. We hypothesized that metabolomics using serum from children would differentiate CF from non-CF lung disease subjects and would provide insight into metabolism in CF. Serum collected from children with CF (n = 31) and 31 age and gender matched children with other lung diseases was used for metabolomic profiling by gas- and liquid-chromatography. Relative concentration of metabolites was compared between the groups using partial least square discriminant analyses (PLS-DA) and linear modeling. A clear separation of the two groups was seen in PLS-DA. Linear model found that among the 459 detected metabolites 92 differed between CF and non-CF. These included known biochemicals in lipid metabolism, oxidants, and markers consistent with abnormalities in bile acid processing. Bacterial metabolites were identified and differed between the groups indicating intestinal dysbiosis in CF. As a novel finding several pathways were markedly different in CF, which jointly point towards decreased activity in the β-oxidation of fatty acids. These pathways include low ketone bodies, low medium chain carnitines, elevated di-carboxylic acids and decreased 2-hydroxybutyrate from amino acid metabolism in CF compared to non-CF. Serum metabolomics discriminated CF from non-CF and show altered cellular energy metabolism in CF potentially reflecting mitochondrial dysfunction. Future studies are indicated to examine their relation to the underlying CF defect and their use as biomarkers for disease severity or for cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator (CFTR) function in an era of CFTR modifying drugs."	
27571488		Biotechnology and bioengineering	Discriminating typical and atypical cystic fibrosis-related bacteria by multiplex PNA-FISH.	"This study aims to report the development of peptide nucleic acid (PNA) probes to specifically detect the cystic fibrosis (CF)-associated traditional and atypical species Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Inquilinus limosus, respectively. PNA probes were designed in silico, developed and tested in smears prepared in phosphate-buffer saline (PBS), and in artificial sputum medium (ASM). A multiplex fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) approach using the designed probes was further validated in artificially contaminated clinical sputum samples and also applied in polymicrobial 24 h-old biofilms involving P. aeruginosa, I. limosus, and other CF-related bacteria. Both probes showed high predictive and experimental specificities and sensitivities. The multiplex PNA-FISH assay, associated with non-specific staining, was successfully adapted in the clinical samples and in biofilms of CF-related bacteria, allowing differentiating the community members and inferring about microbial-microbial interactions within the consortia. This study revealed the great potential of PNA-FISH as a diagnostic tool to discriminate between classical and less common CF-associated bacteria, being suitable to further describe species-dependent prevention strategies and deliver more effective target control therapeutics. Biotechnol. Bioeng. 2017;114: 355-367. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc."	
35230145		Journal of aerosol medicine and pulmonary drug delivery	Microbiome Profiles of Nebulizers in Hospital Use.	"Nebulizers are used to provide treatment to respiratory patients. Concerns over nosocomial infection risks from contaminated nebulizers raise the critical need to identify all microbial populations in nebulizers used by patients. However, conventional culture-dependent techniques are inadequate with the ability to identify specific microbial populations only. Therefore, the aims of this study were to acquire complete profiles of microbiomes in nebulizers used by in-patients with culture-independent high-throughput sequencing and identify sources of microbial contaminants for the development of effective practices to reduce microbial contamination in nebulizer devices.  This study was conducted at the University of Tennessee Medical Center in Knoxville, TN. Nebulizers were collected between May 2018 and October 2018 from inpatients admitted to the floors for pneumonia or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbations. Nebulizers were sampled for 16S rRNA gene-based amplicon sequencing to profile nebulizer microbiomes and perform phylogenetic analysis. A Bayesian community-wide culture-independent microbial source tracking technique was used to quantify the contribution of human-associated microbiota as potential sources of nebulizer contamination.  Culture-independent sequencing detected diverse microbial populations in nebulizers, represented by 18 abundant genera.  was identified as the most abundant genus, accounting for 12.4% of the nebulizer microbiome, followed by , , , and . Phylogenetic analysis revealed the presence of multiple phylotypes with close relationship to potential pathogens. Contributing up to 15% to nebulizer microbiomes, human-associated microbiota was not identified as the primary sources of nebulizer contamination.  Culture-independent sequencing was demonstrated to be capable of acquiring comprehensive profiles of microbiomes in nebulizers used by in-patients. Phylogenetic analysis identified differences in pathogenicity between closely related phylotypes. Microbiome profile-enabled community-wide culture-independent microbial source tracking suggested greater importance of environmental sources than human sources as contributors to nebulizer microbiomes, providing important insight for the development of effective strategies for the monitoring and control of nebulizer devices to mitigate infection risks in the hospital."	
36573804		Gut microbes	Diet and the gut-lung axis in cystic fibrosis - direct & indirect links.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a multisystem, autosomal, recessive disease primarily affecting the lungs, pancreas, gastrointestinal tract, and liver. Whilst there is increasing evidence of a microbial 'gut-lung axis' in chronic respiratory conditions, there has been limited analysis of such a concept in CF. We performed a comprehensive dietary and microbiota analysis to explore the interactions between diet, gastrointestinal microbiota, respiratory microbiota, and clinical outcomes in children with CF. Our results demonstrate significant alterations in intestinal inflammation and respiratory and gastrointestinal microbiota when compared to age and gender matched children without CF. We identified correlations between the gastrointestinal and respiratory microbiota, lung function, CF pulmonary exacerbations and anthropometrics, supporting the concept of an altered gut-lung axis in children with CF. We also identified significant differences in dietary quality with CF children consuming greater relative proportions of total, saturated and trans fats, and less relative proportions of carbohydrates, wholegrains, fiber, insoluble fiber, starch, and resistant starch. Our findings position the CF diet as a potential modulator in gastrointestinal inflammation and the proposed gut-lung axial relationship in CF. The dietary intake of wholegrains, fiber and resistant starch may be protective against intestinal inflammation and should be explored as potential therapeutic adjuvants for children with CF."	
29106682		Toxicological sciences : an official journal of the Society of Toxicology	Insights Into a Possible Influence on Gut Microbiota and Intestinal Barrier Function During Chronic Exposure of Mice to Imazalil.	"The fungicide imazalil (IMZ) is widely used to prevent and treat fungal diseases in plants and animals. Here, male adult C57BL/6 mice were exposed to 0.1, 0.5, and 2.5 mg/kg body weight IMZ for 2, 5, or 15 weeks. The microbiota in cecal contents and feces changed during chronic IMZ exposure at phylum and genus levels. Sequencing of the V3-V4 region of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene revealed a significant change in the richness of microbiota in cecal contents and feces after exposure to 2.5 mg/kg IMZ for 15 weeks. Operational taxonomic unit (OTU) analysis indicated that 31.1% of cecal OTUs and 14.0% of fecal OTUs changed after IMZ exposure. In addition, chronic IMZ exposure also disturbed the intestinal barrier function of the mice, reducing mucus secretion, decreasing the expression of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR)-related genes in both the ileum and colon. Molecular docking analysis revealed that key hydrogen bonds were formed by nitrogen atoms of the imidazole bond with Val440 of CFTR and Ala697 of the SLC26 family. Our data suggested that gut microbiota and intestinal barrier were potential toxicological targets of IMZ."	
28094327		Scientific reports	Rapid adaptation drives invasion of airway donor microbiota by Pseudomonas after lung transplantation.	"In cystic fibrosis (CF) patients, chronic airway infection by Pseudomonas leads to progressive lung destruction ultimately requiring lung transplantation (LT). Following LT, CF-adapted Pseudomonas strains, potentially originating from the sinuses, may seed the allograft leading to infections and reduced allograft survival. We investigated whether CF-adapted Pseudomonas populations invade the donor microbiota and adapt to the non-CF allograft. We collected sequential Pseudomonas isolates and airway samples from a CF-lung transplant recipient during two years, and followed the dynamics of the microbiota and Pseudomonas populations. We show that Pseudomonas invaded the host microbiota within three days post-LT, in association with a reduction in richness and diversity. A dominant mucoid and hypermutator mutL lineage was replaced after 11 days by non-mucoid strains. Despite antibiotic therapy, Pseudomonas dominated the allograft microbiota until day 95. We observed positive selection of pre-LT variants and the appearance of novel mutations. Phenotypic adaptation resulted in increased biofilm formation and swimming motility capacities. Pseudomonas was replaced after 95 days by a microbiota dominated by Actinobacillus. In conclusion, mucoid Pseudomonas adapted to the CF-lung remained able to invade the allograft. Selection of both pre-existing non-mucoid subpopulations and of novel phenotypic traits suggests rapid adaptation of Pseudomonas to the non-CF allograft."	
36154176	metagenomics	Microbiology spectrum	Impact of Elexacaftor/Tezacaftor/Ivacaftor Therapy on the Cystic Fibrosis Airway Microbial Metagenome.	"The introduction of mutation-specific combination therapy with the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) modulators elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor (ELX/TEZ/IVA) has substantially improved lung function and quality of life of people with cystic fibrosis (CF). Collecting deep cough swabs and induced sputum, this postapproval study examined the effect of 14- and 50-week treatment with ELX/TEZ/IVA on the airway microbial metagenome of pancreatic- insufficient CF patients aged 12 years and older. Compared to pretreatment, the total bacterial load decreased, the individual species were more evenly distributed in the community, and the individual microbial metagenomes became more similar in their composition. However, the microbial network remained vulnerable to fragmentation. The initial shift of the CF metagenome was attributable to the ELX/TEZ/IVA-mediated gain of CFTR activity followed by a diversification driven by a group of commensals at the 1-year time point that are typical for healthy airways.  Shotgun metagenome sequencing of respiratory secretions with spike-in controls for normalization demonstrated that 1 year of high-efficient CFTR modulation with elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor extensively reduced the bacterial load. Longer observation periods will be necessary to resolve whether the partial reversion of the basic defect that is achieved with ELX/TEZ/IVA is sufficient in the long run to render the CF lungs robust against the recolonization with common opportunistic pathogens."	?
28301571		PloS one	Modulation of behaviour and virulence of a high alginate expressing Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain from cystic fibrosis by oral commensal bacterium Streptococcus anginosus.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) airways harbour complex and dynamic polymicrobial communities that include many oral bacteria. Despite increased knowledge of CF airway microbiomes the interaction between established CF pathogens and other resident microbes and resulting impact on disease progression is poorly understood. Previous studies have demonstrated that oral commensal streptococci of the Anginosus group (AGS) can establish chronic pulmonary infections and become numerically dominant in CF sputa indicating that they play an important role in CF microbiome dynamics. In this study a strain of Pseudomonas aeruginosa (DWW2) of the mucoid alginate overproducing phenotype associated with chronic CF airway infection and a strain of the oral commensal AGS species Streptococcus anginosus (3a) from CF sputum were investigated for their ability to co-exist and their responses to biofilm co-culture. Bacteria in biofilms were quantified, pyocyanin expression by DWW2 was measured and the effect of AGS strain 3a on reversion of DWW2 to a non-mucoidal phenotype investigated. The virulence of DWW2, 3a and colony variant phenotypes of DWW2 in mono- and co-culture were compared in a Galleria mellonella infection model. Co-culture biofilms were formed in normoxic, hypercapnic (10% CO2) and anoxic atmospheres with the streptococcus increasing in number in co-culture, indicating that these bacteria would be able to co-exist and thrive within the heterogeneous microenvironments of the CF airway. The streptococcus caused increased pyocyanin expression by DWW2 and colony variants by stimulating reversion of the mucoid phenotype to the high pyocyanin expressing non-mucoid phenotype. The latter was highly virulent in the infection model with greater virulence when in co-culture with the streptococcus. The results of this study demonstrate that the oral commensal S. anginosus benefits from interaction with P. aeruginosa of the CF associated mucoid phenotype and modulates the behaviour of the pseudomonad in ways that may be clinically relevant."	
28070022		Journal of breath research	Stable isotope profiles reveal active production of VOCs from human-associated microbes.	"Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) measured from exhaled breath have great promise for the diagnosis of bacterial infections. However, determining human or microbial origin of VOCs detected in breath remains a great challenge. For example, the microbial fermentation product 2,3-butanedione was recently found in the breath of Cystic Fibrosis (CF) patients; parallel culture-independent metagenomic sequencing of the same samples revealed that Streptococcus and Rothia spp. have the genetic capacity to produce 2,3-butanedione. To investigate whether the genetic capacity found in metagenomes translates to bacterial production of a VOC of interest such as 2,3-butanedione, we fed stable isotopes to three bacterial strains isolated from patients: two gram-positive bacteria, Rothia mucilaginosa and Streptococcus salivarius, and a dominant opportunistic gram-negative pathogen, Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Culture headspaces were collected and analyzed using a gas chromatographic system to quantify the abundance of VOCs of interest; mass spectroscopy was used to determine whether the stable isotope label had been incorporated. Our results show that R. mucilaginosa and S. salivarius consumed D-Glucose-C to produce labeled 2,3-butanedione. R. mucilaginosa and S. salivarius also produced labeled acetaldehyde and ethanol when grown with HO. Additionally, we find that P. aeruginosa growth and dimethyl sulfide production are increased when exposed to lactic acid in culture. These results highlight the importance VOCs produced by P. aeruginosa, R. mucilaginosa, and S. salivarius as nutrients and signals in microbial communities, and as potential biomarkers in a CF infection."	
31709946		Tuberkuloz ve toraks	[Investigation of role of anaerobic bacteria in cystic fibrosis patients].	"Repetitive pulmonary infections are the main cause of morbidity and mortality in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. In recent years, non-culture dependent metagenomic studies showed complex dynamics of the pulmonary environment of CF patients and pointed out the importance of anaerobic bacteria. Molecular-based studies indicate that anaerobic bacteria can be found more than aerobic or facultative anaerobic bacteria in CF lung environment. However, limited number of studies are far away to clarify the importance of anaerobic bacteria in CF pulmonary disease. The aim of this study was to evaluate the role of anaerobic bacteria in CF patients admitted to Hacettepe University, Pediatric Respiratory Diseases Department, by using quantitative culture method for both aerobic and anaerobic bacteria. Anaerobic bacteria were identified by conventional and semi-automated methods. Antibiotic susceptibilities were performed by agar dilution method. Seventy-seven anaerobic bacteria were isolated from 35 (81.4%) of 43 patients. The total count of anaerobes and facultative bacteria (mean 16 x 106), was higher than aerobes and facultative bacteria (mean 14.1 x 106). If anaerobe culture were not performed merely 63.65% of all species could be obtained. In patients whose samples yielded intermediate or high numbers of PMNLs, significantly more obligate anaerobic bacteria were isolated (p= 0.046). Patients older than 18 years were colonized with higher number of anaerobic bacteria. Susceptibilities of 72 isolates out of 77, against ampicillin, sulbactam-ampicillin, piperacillin, piperacillin-tazobactam, moxifloxacin, metronidazole, imipenem, and clindamycin were also evaluated. Clindamycin was found to be the least effective antibiotic among all. None of the isolates was resistant to imipenem. This is the first study to show the role and importance of anaerobic bacteria in CF patients in our country. The resistance rates in anaerobic bacteria isolated from CF patients is concerning. Therefore, intermittent anaerobic culture and follow-up of resistance rates will be helpful in the follow-up of these patients."	
33669429		Journal of personalized medicine	Intestinal Dysbiosis in Young Cystic Fibrosis Rabbits.	"Individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF) often experience gastrointestinal (GI) abnormalities. In recent years, the intestinal microbiome has been postulated as a contributor to the development of CF-associated GI complications, hence representing a potential therapeutic target for treatment. We recently developed a rabbit model of CF, which is shown to manifest many human patient-like pathological changes, including intestinal obstruction. Here, we investigated the feces microbiome in young CF rabbits in the absence of antibiotics treatment. Stool samples were collected from seven- to nine-week-old CF rabbits ( = 7) and age-matched wild-type (WT) rabbits ( = 6). Microbiomes were investigated by iTag sequencing of 16S rRNA genes, and functional profiles were predicted using PICRUSt. Consistent with reports of those in pediatric CF patients, the fecal microbiomes of CF rabbits are of lower richness and diversity than that of WT rabbits, with a marked taxonomic and inferred functional dysbiosis. Our work identified a new CF animal model with the manifestation of intestinal dysbiosis phenotype. This model system may facilitate the research and development of novel treatments for CF-associated gastrointestinal diseases."	
33053427		Acta biomaterialia	Material properties of interfacial films of mucoid and nonmucoid Pseudomonas aeruginosa isolates.	"Chronic lung infection with bacterial biofilms is a leading cause of death in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. Pseudomonas aeruginosa, one of the many species colonizing the lung airways, can undergo pathoadaptation, leading to a mucoid phenotype with interesting material properties. We hypothesize that the surface properties and extracellular materials of mucoid P. aeruginosa cells greatly influence the mechanical behavior of their films at fluid interfaces. In this study, we investigate the interfacial properties of films formed by nonmucoid (PANT) and mucoid (PASL) strains of P. aeruginosa isolated from CF patients. We use pendant drop elastometry to analyze the interfacial response of the films formed by PANT and PASL at the hexadecane-water interface. The dynamic rheological analyses of the films highlight the distinctive signature of the mucoid strains at fluid interfaces. The mucoid films exhibit greater relaxation following a compressive strain than a tensile one, while a full hysteresis response is achieved by the nonmucoid films; this indicates that the material properties of the PANT films are conserved under both compression and tension. The wrinkling and shape analyses of the interfacial bacterial films elucidate that the mucoid strain exhibits remarkable viscoelastic properties, enabling the remodeling of the living films and dissipation of the compressive stress. The comparative analysis of the material properties of mucoid and nonmucoid P. aeruginosa cells indicates that mucoid switch can play an important role in protecting the bacteria from interfacial stresses. Further characterization of interfacial bacterial films will provide new insights into the development of methods for controlling interfacial films of bacteria."	
35174108	microbial genomics	Frontiers in cellular and infection microbiology	"{'i': 'P. aeruginosa', '#text': 'Commensal Bacteria in the Cystic Fibrosis Airway Microbiome Reduce  Induced Inflammation.'}"	"Chronic  infections play an important role in the progress of lung disease in patients suffering from cystic fibrosis (CF). Recent studies indicate that polymicrobial microbiome profiles in the airway are associated with less inflammation. Thus, the hypothesis was raised that certain commensal bacteria might protect the host from inflammation. We therefore performed a screening study with commensals isolated from CF airway microbiome samples to identify potential beneficial commensals. We isolated more than 80 aerobic or facultative anaerobic commensal strains, including strains from genera , , , , ,  and . Through a screening experiment of co-infection in human epithelial cell lines, we identified multiple commensal strains, especially strains belonging to , that reduced  triggered inflammatory responses. The results were confirmed by co-infection experiments in  precision cut lung slices (PCLS) from mice. The underlying mechanisms of the complex host-pathogen-commensal crosstalk were investigated from both the host and the bacterial sides with a focus on . Transcriptome changes in the host in response to co-infection and mono-infection were evaluated, and the results indicated that several signalling pathways mediating inflammatory responses were downregulated by co-infection with  compared to  mono-infection, such as neutrophil extracellular trap formation. The genomic differences among  strains with and without protective effects were investigated by whole genome sequencing, revealing genes only present in the  strains showing protective effects. In summary, through both  and  studies, we could identify a variety of commensal strains that may reduce host inflammatory responses induced by  infection. These findings support the hypothesis that CF airway commensals may protect the host from inflammation."	
36748431		"Microbiology (Reading, England)"	Acute polymicrobial airway infections: analysis in cystic fibrosis mice.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a genetic disorder affecting epithelial ion transport, which among other impacts results in defective mucociliary clearance and innate defenses in the respiratory tract. Consequently, people with CF experience lifelong infections of the respiratory mucosa that are chronic and polymicrobial in nature. Young children with CF are initially colonized by opportunists like nontypeable  (NTHi), which normally resides within the microbiome of the nasopharynx and upper airways and can also cause infections of the respiratory mucosa that include bronchitis and otitis media. NTHi is typically supplanted by other microbes as patients age; for example, people with CF are often chronically infected with mucoid strains of , which prior work in our laboratory has shown to promote colonization and persistence by other opportunists that include . Our previous work has shown that polymicrobial infection impacts host colonization and persistence of incoming microbes via diverse mechanisms that include priming of host immunity that can promote microbial clearance, and cooperativity within polymicrobial biofilms, which can promote persistence. In infection studies with BALB/c Cftr mice, results showed, as previously observed for WT BALB/c mice, preceding infection with NTHi decreased colonization and persistence by . Likewise, polymicrobial infection of BALB/c Cftr and C57BL/6 Cftr(FABPhCFTR)1Jaw/J mice showed correlation between  and , with increased bacterial colonization and lung pathology. Based on these results, we conclude that our previous observations regarding polymicrobial infections with CF opportunists in WT mice are also validated using CF mice."	
29769279		Journal of clinical microbiology	Microbial Interactions in the Cystic Fibrosis Airway.	"Interactions in the airway ecology of cystic fibrosis may alter organism persistence and clinical outcomes. Better understanding of such interactions could guide clinical decisions. We used generalized estimating equations to fit logistic regression models to longitudinal 2-year patient cohorts in the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Patient Registry, 2003 to 2011, in order to study associations between the airway organisms present in each calendar year and their presence in the subsequent year. Models were adjusted for clinical characteristics and multiple observations per patient. Adjusted models were tested for sensitivity to cystic fibrosis-specific treatments. The study included 28,042 patients aged 6 years and older from 257 accredited U.S. care centers and affiliates. These patients had produced sputum specimens for at least two consecutive years that were cultured for methicillin-sensitive , methicillin-resistant , ,  complex, , , and  and  species. We analyzed 99.8% of 538,458 sputum cultures from the patients during the study period. Methicillin-sensitive  was negatively associated with subsequent  was negatively associated with subsequent  complex, , and  complex was negatively associated with the future presence of all bacteria studied, as well as with that of  species. ,  complex, and  were each reciprocally and positively associated with  species. Independently of patient characteristics, the organisms studied interact and alter the outcomes of treatment decisions, sometimes in unexpected ways. By inhibiting , methicillin-sensitive  may delay lung disease progression.  and  complex may inhibit other organisms by decreasing airway biodiversity, potentially worsening lung disease."	
19906901		Journal of clinical microbiology	Determining cystic fibrosis-affected lung microbiology: comparison of spontaneous and serially induced sputum samples by use of terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism profiling.	"Sampling of the lower airways of the adult cystic fibrosis (CF) lung has received insufficient detailed consideration, with the importance of sampling strategies for bacteriological outcome not known. Although spontaneously expectorated sputum (SES) samples are often used for diagnostic bacteriological analysis, induced sputum (IS) methods have advantages. This study examined whether significant differences in bacterial content were detected when using a culture-independent, molecular profiling technique to analyze SES or IS samples. Moreover, this work examined what trends relating to bacterial species distributions and reproducibility were found in sequentially induced sputum samples and what implications this has for pathogen detection. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis was performed on a SES sample and 4 subsequent IS samples taken at 5-min intervals from 10 clinically stable, adult CF patients. This was repeated over 3 sampling days, with variability between samples, induction periods, and sampling days determined. A diverse range of bacterial species, including potentially novel pathogens, was found. No significant difference in bacterial content was observed for either SES or serial IS samples. On average, the analysis of a single sample from any time point resolved approximately 58% of total bacterial diversity achieved by analysis of an SES sample and 4 subsequent IS samples. The reliance on analysis of a single respiratory sample was not sufficient for the detection of recognized CF pathogens in all instances. Close correlation between T-RFLP and microbiological data in the detection of key species indicates the importance of these findings in routine diagnostics for the detection of recognized and novel CF pathogens."	
38304461		Frontiers in cellular and infection microbiology	"{'i': ['Pseudomonas aeruginosa', 'Staphylococcus aureus'], '#text': 'Altering the interfacial rheology of  and  with N-acetyl cysteine and cysteamine.'}"	"Chronic lung infection due to bacterial biofilms is one of the leading causes of mortality in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. Among many species colonizing the lung airways,  and  are two virulent pathogens involved in mechanically robust biofilms that are difficult to eradicate using airway clearance techniques like lung lavage. To remove such biological materials, glycoside hydrolase-based compounds are commonly employed for targeting and breaking down the biofilm matrix, and subsequently increasing cell susceptibility to antibiotics. In this study, we evaluate the effects of N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) and Cysteamine (CYST) in disrupting interfacial bacterial films, targeting different components of the extracellular polymeric substances (EPS). We characterize the mechanics and structural integrity of the interfacial bacterial films using pendant drop elastometry and scanning electron microscopy. Our results show that the film architectures are compromised by treatment with disrupting agents for 6 h, which reduces film elasticity significantly. These effects are profound in the wild type and mucoid , compared to . We further assess the effects of competition and cooperation between  and  on the mechanics of composite interfacial films. Films of  and wild-type  cocultures lose mechanical strength while those of  and mucoid  exhibit improved storage modulus. Treatment with NAC and CYST reduces the elastic property of both composite films, owing to the drugs' ability to disintegrate their EPS matrix. Overall, our results provide new insights into methods for assessing the efficacy of mucolytic agents against interfacial biofilms relevant to cystic fibrosis infection."	
23271804		Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Tangled bank of experimentally evolved Burkholderia biofilms reflects selection during chronic infections.	"How diversity evolves and persists in biofilms is essential for understanding much of microbial life, including the uncertain dynamics of chronic infections. We developed a biofilm model enabling long-term selection for daily adherence to and dispersal from a plastic bead in a test tube. Focusing on a pathogen of the cystic fibrosis lung, Burkholderia cenocepacia, we sequenced clones and metagenomes to unravel the mutations and evolutionary forces responsible for adaptation and diversification of a single biofilm community during 1,050 generations of selection. The mutational patterns revealed recurrent evolution of biofilm specialists from generalist types and multiple adaptive alleles at relatively few loci. Fitness assays also demonstrated strong interference competition among contending mutants that preserved genetic diversity. Metagenomes from five other independently evolved biofilm lineages revealed extraordinary mutational parallelism that outlined common routes of adaptation, a subset of which was found, surprisingly, in a planktonic population. These mutations in turn were surprisingly well represented among mutations that evolved in cystic fibrosis isolates of both Burkholderia and Pseudomonas. These convergent pathways included altered metabolism of cyclic diguanosine monophosphate, polysaccharide production, tricarboxylic acid cycle enzymes, global transcription, and iron scavenging. Evolution in chronic infections therefore may be driven by mutations in relatively few pathways also favored during laboratory selection, creating hope that experimental evolution may illuminate the ecology and selective dynamics of chronic infections and improve treatment strategies."	
36368923		BMC genomics	Wochenende - modular and flexible alignment-based shotgun metagenome analysis.	"Shotgun metagenome analysis provides a robust and verifiable method for comprehensive microbiome analysis of fungal, viral, archaeal and bacterial taxonomy, particularly with regard to visualization of read mapping location, normalization options, growth dynamics and functional gene repertoires. Current read classification tools use non-standard output formats, or do not fully show information on mapping location. As reference datasets are not perfect, portrayal of mapping information is critical for judging results effectively. Our alignment-based pipeline, Wochenende, incorporates flexible quality control, trimming, mapping, various filters and normalization. Results are completely transparent and filters can be adjusted by the user. We observe stringent filtering of mismatches and use of mapping quality sharply reduces the number of false positives. Further modules allow genomic visualization and the calculation of growth rates, as well as integration and subsequent plotting of pipeline results as heatmaps or heat trees. Our novel normalization approach additionally allows calculation of absolute abundance profiles by comparison with reads assigned to the human host genome. Wochenende has the ability to find and filter alignments to all kingdoms of life using both short and long reads, and requires only good quality reference genomes. Wochenende automatically combines multiple available modules ranging from quality control and normalization to taxonomic visualization. Wochenende is available at https://github.com/MHH-RCUG/nf_wochenende ."	
23635385		APMIS. Supplementum	The role of bacterial biofilms in chronic infections.	"Acute infections caused by pathogenic bacteria have been studied extensively for well over 100 years. These infections killed millions of people in previous centuries, but they have been combated effectively by the development of modern vaccines, antibiotics and infection control measures. Most research into bacterial pathogenesis has focused on acute infections, but these diseases have now been supplemented by a new category of chronic infections caused by bacteria growing in slime-enclosed aggregates known as biofilms. Biofilm infections, such as pneumonia in cystic fibrosis patients, chronic wounds, chronic otitis media and implant- and catheter-associated infections, affect millions of people in the developed world each year and many deaths occur as a consequence. In general, bacteria have two life forms during growth and proliferation. In one form, the bacteria exist as single, independent cells (planktonic) whereas in the other form, bacteria are organized into sessile aggregates. The latter form is commonly referred to as the biofilm growth phenotype. Acute infections are assumed to involve planktonic bacteria, which are generally treatable with antibiotics, although successful treatment depends on accurate and fast diagnosis. However, in cases where the bacteria succeed in forming a biofilm within the human host, the infection often turns out to be untreatable and will develop into a chronic state. The important hallmarks of chronic biofilm-based infections are extreme resistance to antibiotics and many other conventional antimicrobial agents, and an extreme capacity for evading the host defences. In this thesis, I will assemble the current knowledge on biofilms with an emphasis on chronic infections, guidelines for diagnosis and treatment of these infections, before relating this to my previous research into the area of biofilms. I will present evidence to support a view that the biofilm lifestyle dominates chronic bacterial infections, where bacterial aggregation is the default mode, and that subsequent biofilm development progresses by adaptation to nutritional and environmental conditions. I will make a series of correlations to highlight the most important aspects of biofilms from my perspective, and to determine what can be deduced from the past decades of biofilm research. I will try to bridge in vitro and in vivo research and propose methods for studying biofilms based on this knowledge. I will compare how bacterial biofilms exist in stable ecological habitats and opportunistically in unstable ecological habitats, such as infections. Bacteria have a similar lifestyle (the biofilm) in both habitats, but the fight for survival and supremacy is different. On the basis of this comparison, I will hypothesize how chronic biofilm infections are initiated and how bacteria live together in these infections. Finally, I will discuss different aspects of biofilm infection diagnosis. Hopefully, this survey of current knowledge and my proposed guidelines will provide the basis and inspiration for more research, improved diagnostics, and treatments for well-known biofilm infections and any that may be identified in the future."	
33727344		mBio	One versus Many: Polymicrobial Communities and the Cystic Fibrosis Airway.	"Culture-independent studies have revealed that chronic lung infections in persons with cystic fibrosis (pwCF) are rarely limited to one microbial species. Interactions among bacterial members of these polymicrobial communities in the airways of pwCF have been reported to modulate clinically relevant phenotypes. Furthermore, it is clear that a single polymicrobial community in the context of CF airway infections cannot explain the diversity of clinical outcomes. While large 16S rRNA gene-based studies have allowed us to gain insight into the microbial composition and predicted functional capacities of communities found in the CF lung, here we argue that  approaches can help build clinically relevant  models of polymicrobial communities that can in turn be used to experimentally test and validate computationally generated hypotheses. Furthermore, we posit that combining computational and experimental approaches will enhance our understanding of mechanisms that drive microbial community function and identify new therapeutics to target polymicrobial infections."	
26940651		Scientific reports	Metagenomic evidence for taxonomic dysbiosis and functional imbalance in the gastrointestinal tracts of children with cystic fibrosis.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) results in inflammation, malabsorption of fats and other nutrients, and obstruction in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract, yet the mechanisms linking these disease manifestations to microbiome composition remain largely unexplored. Here we used metagenomic analysis to systematically characterize fecal microbiomes of children with and without CF, demonstrating marked CF-associated taxonomic dysbiosis and functional imbalance. We further showed that these taxonomic and functional shifts were especially pronounced in young children with CF and diminished with age. Importantly, the resulting dysbiotic microbiomes had significantly altered capacities for lipid metabolism, including decreased capacity for overall fatty acid biosynthesis and increased capacity for degrading anti-inflammatory short-chain fatty acids. Notably, these functional differences correlated with fecal measures of fat malabsorption and inflammation. Combined, these results suggest that enteric fat abundance selects for pro-inflammatory GI microbiota in young children with CF, offering novel strategies for improving the health of children with CF-associated fat malabsorption."	
25665925		Scientific reports	Pseudomonas aeruginosa manipulates redox and iron homeostasis of its microbiota partner Aspergillus fumigatus via phenazines.	"The opportunistic fungal pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus is increasingly found as a coinfecting agent along with Pseudomonas aeruginosa in cystic fibrosis patients. Amongst the numerous molecules secreted by P. aeruginosa during its growth, phenazines constitute a major class. P. aeruginosa usually secreted four phenazines, pyocyanin (PYO), phenazine-1-carboxamide (PCN), 1-hydroxyphenazine (1-HP) and phenazine-1-carboxylic acid (PCA). These phenazines inhibited the growth of A. fumigatus but the underlying mechanisms and the impact of these four phenazines on A. fumigatus biology were not known. In the present study, we analyzed the functions of the four phenazines and their mode of action on A. fumigatus. All four phenazines showed A. fumigatus growth inhibitory effects by inducing production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), specifically O2(·-), and reactive nitrogen species (RNS), ONOO(-). A. fumigatus Sod2p was the major factor involved in resistance against the ROS and RNS induced by phenazines. Sub-inhibitory concentrations of PYO, PCA and PCN promote A. fumigatus growth by an independent iron-uptake acquisition. Of the four phenazines 1-HP had a redox-independent function; being able to chelate metal ions 1-HP induced A. fumigatus iron starvation. Our data show the fine-interactions existing between A. fumigatus and P. aeruginosa, which can lead to stimulatory or antagonistic effects."	
23706827		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Molecular analysis of changes in Pseudomonas aeruginosa load during treatment of a pulmonary exacerbation in cystic fibrosis.	"Intravenous antibiotics for pulmonary exacerbations (PEs) of cystic fibrosis (CF) usually target Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Insights into the CF lung microbiome have questioned this approach. We used RT-qPCR to determine whether intravenous antibiotics reduced P. aeruginosa numbers and whether this correlated with improved lung function. We also investigated antibiotic effects on other common respiratory pathogens in CF. Sputa were collected from patients when stable and again during a PE. Sputa were expectorated into a RNA preservation buffer for RNA extraction and preparation of cDNA. qPCR was used to enumerate viable P. aeruginosa as well as Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Staphylococcus aureus, Burkholderia cepacia complex and Aspergillus fumigatus. Fifteen CF patients were followed through 21 PEs. A complete set of serial sputum samples was unavailable for two patients (three separate PEs). P. aeruginosa numbers did not increase immediately prior to a PE, but numbers during intravenous antibiotic treatment were reduced ≥4-log in 6/18 and ≥1-log in 4/18 PEs. In 7/18 PEs, P. aeruginosa numbers changed very little with intravenous antibiotics and one patient demonstrated a ≥2-log increase in P. aeruginosa load. H. influenzae and S. pneumoniae were detected in ten and five PEs respectively, but with antibiotic treatment these bacteria rapidly became undetectable in 6/10 and 4/5 PEs, respectively. There was a negative correlation between P. aeruginosa numbers and FEV1 during stable phase (r(s)=0.75, p<0.05), and reductions in P. aeruginosa load with intravenous antibiotic treatment correlated with improved FEV1 (r(s)=0.52, p<0.05). Exacerbations are not due to increased P. aeruginosa numbers in CF adults. However, lung function improvements correlate with reduced P. aeruginosa burden suggesting that current antibiotic treatment strategies remain appropriate in most patients. Improved understanding of PE characterised by unchanged P. aeruginosa numbers and minimal lung function improvement following treatment may allow better targeted therapies."	
23151540		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Dysbiosis of bifidobacteria and Clostridium cluster XIVa in the cystic fibrosis fecal microbiota.	"Recurrent antimicrobial interventions and disease-related intestinal dysfunction are suspected to contribute to the dysbiosis of the gastrointestinal microbial ecosystem in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). The present study set out to detect and identify microbial discriminants in the gut microbiota composition that are associated with CF-related intestinal dysbiosis. An in-depth description of CF-associated gut dysbiosis was obtained by screening denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) fingerprints for potentially discriminating bacterial species, and quantification by means of real-time PCR analyses using group-specific primers. A total of 8 DGGE band-classes assigned to the genus Bifidobacterium (n=3), and members of Clostridium clusters XIVa (n=3) and IV (n=2), were significantly (p<0.05) underrepresented in samples of patients with CF. Real-time PCR analyses confirmed a significantly lower abundance and temporal stability of bifidobacteria and Clostridium cluster XIVa in the fecal microbiota of patients with CF. This study is the first to report specific microbial determinants of dysbiosis in patients with CF."	
32084305		Pediatric pulmonology	Viral strategies predisposing to respiratory bacterial superinfections.	"Acute respiratory infections are amongst the leading causes of childhood morbidity and mortality globally. Viruses are the predominant cause of such infections, but mixed etiologies with bacteria has for decades raised the question of the interplay between them in causality and determination of the outcome of such infections. In this review, we examine recent microbiological, biochemical, and immunological advances that contribute to elucidating the mechanisms by which infections by specific viruses enable bacterial infections in the airway, and exacerbate them. We analyze specific domains in which viruses play such facilitating role including enhancement of bacterial adhesion by unmasking cryptic receptors and upregulation of adhesion proteins, disruption of tight junction integrity favoring paracellular transmigration of bacteria and loss of epithelial barrier integrity, increased availability of nutrient, such as mucins and iron, alteration of innate and adaptive immune responses, and disabling defense against bacteria, and lastly, changes in airway microbiome that render the lung more vulnerable to pathogens. Separate exhaustive analysis of each domain focuses on individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF), in whom viruses may play a key role in paving the way for the primary injury that leads to permanence of bacterial pathogens, viruses may then serve as triggers for ""CF exacerbations""; these constituting the signature and ultimately the outcome determinants of these patients."	
15114555		Pediatric pulmonology	"Identification of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Burkholderia cepacia complex, and Stenotrophomonas maltophilia in respiratory samples from cystic fibrosis patients using multiplex PCR."	"A multiplex PCR method was developed to identify P. aeruginosa, B. cepacia complex, and S. maltophilia directly in sputum and oropharyngeal samples from CF patients. One hundred and six patients (53 male, and 53 female) attending our pulmonology clinic were studied from September 2000-April 2001. Two hundred and fifty-seven samples were cultured in selective media and submitted to multiplex PCR reactions, using three primer pairs targeting specific genomic sequences of each species, with an additional primer pair targeting a stretch of ribosomal 16S DNA, universal for bacteria, to act as a control. P. aeruginosa was isolated by culture in 56% of samples, B. cepacia complex in 4.3%, and S. maltophilia in 2.7%, while multiplex PCR identified P. aeruginosa in 78.7%, B. cepacia complex in 3.9%, and S. maltophilia in 3.1% of samples. Multiplex PCR results were verified by PCR reactions using different species-specific primers described in the literature and DNA sequencing of amplicons from a few samples. Comparing to culture results, the sensitivity and specificity values of multiplex PCR for bacterial identification were, respectively, 97.2% and 45.5% for P. aeruginosa, 45.5% and 97.9% for B. cepacia complex, and 40% and 97.6% for S. maltophilia. All 10 multiplex PCR-positive results for B. cepacia complex were confirmed using other species-specific primers described in the literature, while this approach confirmed results for S. maltophilia identification in 7/8 samples (87.5%). Sequencing of amplicons from samples culture-negative but multiplex PCR-positive for P. aeruginosa and B. cepacia complex confirmed their identity, while minor nucleotide differences among amplicons ruled out the hypothesis of PCR contamination."	
33688005		mBio	Strain-Resolved Dynamics of the Lung Microbiome in Patients with Cystic Fibrosis.	"In cystic fibrosis, dynamic and complex communities of microbial pathogens and commensals can colonize the lung. Cultured isolates from lung sputum reveal high inter- and intraindividual variability in pathogen strains, sequence variants, and phenotypes; disease progression likely depends on the precise combination of infecting lineages. Routine clinical protocols, however, provide a limited overview of the colonizer populations. Therefore, a more comprehensive and precise identification and characterization of infecting lineages could assist in making corresponding decisions on treatment. Here, we describe longitudinal tracking for four cystic fibrosis patients who exhibited extreme clinical phenotypes and, thus, were selected from a pilot cohort of 11 patients with repeated sampling for more than a year. Following metagenomics sequencing of lung sputum, we find that the taxonomic identity of individual colonizer lineages can be easily established. Crucially, even superficially clonal pathogens can be subdivided into multiple sublineages at the sequence level. By tracking individual allelic differences over time, an assembly-free clustering approach allows us to reconstruct multiple lineage-specific genomes with clear structural differences. Our study showcases a culture-independent shotgun metagenomics approach for longitudinal tracking of sublineage pathogen dynamics, opening up the possibility of using such methods to assist in monitoring disease progression through providing high-resolution routine characterization of the cystic fibrosis lung microbiome. Cystic fibrosis patients frequently suffer from recurring respiratory infections caused by colonizing pathogenic and commensal bacteria. Although modern therapies can sometimes alleviate respiratory symptoms by ameliorating residual function of the protein responsible for the disorder, management of chronic respiratory infections remains an issue. Here, we propose a minimally invasive and culture-independent method to monitor microbial lung content in patients with cystic fibrosis at minimal additional effort on the patient's part. Through repeated sampling and metagenomics sequencing of our selected cystic fibrosis patients, we successfully classify infecting bacterial lineages and deconvolute multiple lineage variants of the same species within a given patient. This study explores the application of modern computational methods for deconvoluting lineages in the cystic fibrosis lung microbiome, an environment known to be inhabited by a heterogeneous pathogen population that complicates management of the disorder."	
32079513		Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Characteristics of the Airway Microbiome of Cystic Fibrosis Patients.	"Microbiota as an integral component of human body is actively investigated, including by massively parallel sequencing. However, microbiomes of lungs and sinuses have become the object of scientific attention only in the last decade. For patients with cystic fibrosis, monitoring the state of respiratory tract microorganisms is essential for maintaining lung function. Here, we studied the role of sinuses and polyps in the formation of respiratory tract microbiome. We identified Proteobacteria in the sinuses and samples from the lower respiratory tract (even in childhood). In some cases, they were accompanied by potentially dangerous basidiomycetes. The presence of polyps did not affect formation of the sinus microbiome. Proteobacteria are decisive in reducing the biodiversity of lung and sinus microbiomes, which correlated with the worsening of the lung function indicators. Soft mutations in the CFTR gene contribute to the formation of safer microbiome even in heterozygotes with class I mutations."	
31053725		Scientific reports	A longitudinal characterization of the Non-Cystic Fibrosis Bronchiectasis airway microbiome.	"A diverse microbiota exists within the airways of individuals with non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis (nCFB). How the lung microbiome evolves over time, and whether changes within the microbiome correlate with future disease progression is not yet known. We assessed the microbial community structure of 133 serial sputa and subsequent disease course of 29 nCFB patients collected over a span of 4-16 years using 16S rRNA paired-end sequencing. Interestingly, no significant shifts in the microbial community of individuals were observed during extended follow-up suggesting the microbiome remains relatively stable over prolonged periods. Samples that were Pseudomonas aeruginosa culture positive displayed markedly different microbial community structures compared to those that were positive for Haemophilus influenzae. Importantly, patients with sputum of lower microbial community diversity were more likely to experience subsequent lung function decline as defined by annual change in ≥-1 FEV% predicted. Shannon diversity values <1 were more prevalent in patients with FEV decline (P = 0.002). However, the relative abundance of particular core microbiota constituents did not associate with risk of decline. Here we present data confirming that the microbiome of nCFB individuals is generally stable, and that microbiome-based measurements may have a prognostic role as biomarkers for nCFB."	
23564400		Thorax	Clinical measures of disease in adult non-CF bronchiectasis correlate with airway microbiota composition.	"Despite the potentially important roles for infection in adult non-cystic fibrosis (CF) bronchiectasis disease progression, the bacterial species present in the lower airways of these patients is poorly characterised. To provide a comprehensive cross-sectional analysis of bacterial content of lower airway samples from patients with non-CF bronchiectasis using culture-independent microbiology. Paired induced sputum and bronchoalveolar lavage samples, obtained from 41 adult patients with non-CF bronchiectasis, were analysed by 16S ribosomal RNA gene pyrosequencing. Assessment of species distribution and dispersal allowed 'core' and 'satellite' bacterial populations to be defined for this patient group. Microbiota characteristics correlated with clinical markers of disease. 140 bacterial species were identified, including those associated with respiratory tract infections and opportunistic infections more generally. A group of core species, consisting of species detected frequently and in high abundance, was defined. Core species included those currently associated with infection in bronchiectasis, such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Haemophilus influenzae and Streptococcus pneumoniae, and many species that would be unlikely to be reported through standard diagnostic surveillance. These included members of the genera Veillonella, Prevotella and Neisseria. The comparative contribution of core and satellite groups suggested a low level of random species acquisition. Bacterial diversity was significantly positively correlated with forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1) and bacterial community composition similarity correlated significantly with FEV1, neutrophil count and Leicester cough score. Characteristics of the lower airways microbiota of adult patients with non-CF bronchiectasis correlate significantly with clinical markers of disease severity."	
32652603		The Journal of physiology	"Bugs, breathing and blood pressure: microbiota-gut-brain axis signalling in cardiorespiratory control in health and disease."	"There is clear evidence of physiological effects of the gut microbiota on whole-body function in health and disease. Microbiota-gut-brain axis signalling is recognised as a key player in behavioural disorders such as depression and anxiety. Recent evidence suggests that the gut microbiota affects neurocontrol networks responsible for homeostatic functions that are essential for life. We consider the evidence suggesting the potential for the gut microbiota to shape cardiorespiratory homeostasis. In various animal models of disease, there is an association between cardiorespiratory morbidity and perturbed gut microbiota, with strong evidence in support of a role of the gut microbiota in the control of blood pressure. Interventions that target the gut microbiota or manipulate the gut-brain axis, such as short-chain fatty acid supplementation, prevent hypertension in models of obstructive sleep apnoea. Emerging evidence points to a role for the microbiota-gut-brain axis in the control of breathing and ventilatory responsiveness, relevant to cardiorespiratory disease. There is also evidence for an association between the gut microbiota and disease severity in people with asthma and cystic fibrosis. There are many gaps in the knowledge base and an urgent need to better understand the mechanisms by which gut health and dysbiosis contribute to cardiorespiratory control. Nevertheless, there is a growing consensus that manipulation of the gut microbiota could prove an efficacious adjunctive strategy in the treatment of common cardiorespiratory diseases, which are the leading causes of morbidity and mortality."	
24401856		The ISME journal	"Metabolite transfer with the fermentation product 2,3-butanediol enhances virulence by Pseudomonas aeruginosa."	"The respiratory tract of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients harbor persistent microbial communities (CF airway microbiome) with Pseudomonas aeruginosa emerging as a dominant pathogen. Within a polymicrobial infection, interactions between co-habitant microbes can be important for pathogenesis, but even when considered, these interactions are not well understood. Here, we show with in vitro experiments that, compared with glucose, common fermentation products from co-habitant bacteria significantly increase virulence factor production, antimicrobial activity and biofilm formation of P. aeruginosa. The maximum stimulating effect was produced with the fermentation product 2,3-butanediol, which is a substrate for P. aeruginosa, resulting in a metabolic relationship between fermenters and this pathogen. The global transcription regulator LasI LasR, which controls quorum sensing, was upregulated threefold with 2,3-butanediol, resulting in higher phenazine and exotoxin concentrations and improved biofilm formation. This indicates that the success of P. aeruginosa in CF airway microbiomes could be governed by the location within the food web with fermenting bacteria. Our findings suggest that interbacterial metabolite transfer in polymicrobial infections stimulates virulence of P. aeruginosa and could have a considerable impact on disease progression."	
27760173		PloS one	Filtration and Normalization of Sequencing Read Data in Whole-Metagenome Shotgun Samples.	"Ever-increasing affordability of next-generation sequencing makes whole-metagenome sequencing an attractive alternative to traditional 16S rDNA, RFLP, or culturing approaches for the analysis of microbiome samples. The advantage of whole-metagenome sequencing is that it allows direct inference of the metabolic capacity and physiological features of the studied metagenome without reliance on the knowledge of genotypes and phenotypes of the members of the bacterial community. It also makes it possible to overcome problems of 16S rDNA sequencing, such as unknown copy number of the 16S gene and lack of sufficient sequence similarity of the ""universal"" 16S primers to some of the target 16S genes. On the other hand, next-generation sequencing suffers from biases resulting in non-uniform coverage of the sequenced genomes. To overcome this difficulty, we present a model of GC-bias in sequencing metagenomic samples as well as filtration and normalization techniques necessary for accurate quantification of microbial organisms. While there has been substantial research in normalization and filtration of read-count data in such techniques as RNA-seq or Chip-seq, to our knowledge, this has not been the case for the field of whole-metagenome shotgun sequencing. The presented methods assume that complete genome references are available for most microorganisms of interest present in metagenomic samples. This is often a valid assumption in such fields as medical diagnostics of patient microbiota. Testing the model on two validation datasets showed four-fold reduction in root-mean-square error compared to non-normalized data in both cases. The presented methods can be applied to any pipeline for whole metagenome sequencing analysis relying on complete microbial genome references. We demonstrate that such pre-processing reduces the number of false positive hits and increases accuracy of abundance estimates."	
37202074		Clinical nutrition ESPEN	Profile of the intestinal microbiota of patients with cystic fibrosis: A systematic review.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a multisystem disease that can compromise several human body organs. The autosomal recessive genetic disorder is caused by different mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene, responsible for chloride ion transport across apical membranes of epithelial cells in tissues and bicarbonate secretion. In this study, we provide a systematic review of the profile of the intestinal microbiota of cystic fibrosis individuals. The review was conducted according to Preferred Items of Reports for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis (PRISMA) guidelines. PubMed/MEDLINE and Scopus databases were searched for relevant articles until Jully 2022. Eighteen studies (1304 participants) met the inclusion criteria. The quality and bias was assessed using the Methodological index for non-randomized studies (MINORS) tool, with the majority of the studies indicating medium to high quality. Results showed significant changes in the composition of the intestinal microbiota of the individuals with CF compared with healthy controls, with increased of Enterococcus, Veillonella, and Streptococcus, and decreased of Bifidobacterium, Roseburia, and Alistipes genus. The intestinal bacterial community of CF patients was marked by a reduction in its richness and diversity. The systematic review suggests a change in the intestinal microbiota of CF individuals, characterized by a reduction in microbial diversity and abundance of some bacterial markers."	
38717347		American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine	Endotypes of Exacerbation in Bronchiectasis: An Observational Cohort Study.	"Bronchiectasis is characterized by acute exacerbations, but the biological mechanisms underlying these events are poorly characterized.  To investigate the inflammatory and microbial characteristics of exacerbations of bronchiectasis.  A total of 120 patients with bronchiectasis were enrolled and presented with acute exacerbations within 12 months. Spontaneous sputum samples were obtained during a period of clinical stability and again at exacerbation before receipt of antibiotic treatment. A validated rapid PCR assay for bacteria and viruses was used to classify exacerbations as bacterial, viral, or both. Sputum inflammatory assessments included label-free liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry and measurement of sputum cytokines and neutrophil elastase activity. 16 s rRNA sequencing was used to characterize the microbiome.  Bronchiectasis exacerbations showed profound molecular heterogeneity. At least one bacterium was identified in 103 samples (86%), and a high bacterial load (total bacterial load > 10 copies/g) was observed in 81 patients (68%). Respiratory viruses were identified in 55 (46%) patients, with rhinovirus being the most common virus (31%). PCR testing was more sensitive than culture. No consistent change in the microbiome was observed at exacerbation. Exacerbations were associated with increased neutrophil elastase, proteinase-3, IL-1β, and CXCL8. These markers were particularly associated with bacterial and bacterial plus viral exacerbations. Distinct inflammatory and microbiome profiles were seen between different exacerbation subtypes, including bacterial, viral, and eosinophilic events in both hypothesis-led and hypothesis-free analysis using integrated microbiome and proteomics, demonstrating four subtypes of exacerbation.  Bronchiectasis exacerbations are heterogeneous events with contributions from bacteria, viruses, and inflammatory dysregulation."	
31160069		Archivos de bronconeumologia	Look at the wood and not at the tree: The Microbiome in Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease and Cystic Fibrosis.		
37253897		Inflammation research : official journal of the European Histamine Research Society ... [et al.]	Biofilm-forming strains of P. aeruginosa and S. aureus isolated from cystic fibrosis patients differently affect inflammatory phenotype of macrophages.	"Lung cystic fibrosis (CF) is characterized by chronic infections and hyperinflammatory response of neutrophils and macrophages. P. aeruginosa (PA) and S. aureus (MSSA, MRSA) are major pathogens of advanced CF. The main goal of this study was to compare the inflammatory phenotype of murine C57BL/6 macrophages exposed to PA57 with that exposed to MSSA60, both strains isolated from the same patient with severe CF. In the present study, we used C57BL/6 mice sensitive to lung infection with P. aeruginosa. We measured the release of cytokines and the expression of phenotypic markers of murine neutrophils and macrophages exposed to bacterial cells and biofilm components (i.e., EPS) of the selected bacteria. In addition, a quantitative proteomic approach was used for the characterization of proteome-wide changes in macrophages. Neutrophils stimulated with PA57 and MSSA60 strains produced hyperinflammatory pattern of cytokines. The pro-inflammatory impact of PA57 was significantly higher than that of MSSA60 (IL-6/IL-10 ratio: PA57 = 9.3 vs. MSSA60 = 1.7). Macrophages produced significantly lower amount of cytokines, but showed classical pattern of M1 markers (iNOS-High; arginase-1 and mannose receptor MRC1-Low). Importantly, as evidenced by proteomic analysis, PA57 and PA57-EPS were stronger inducers of M1 macrophage polarization than the MSSA60 counterparts. Our study demonstrated that strong biofilm P. aeruginosa strains, CF isolates, are dominant inducers of M1 macrophages, termed biofilm-associated macrophages (BAMs). We suggest that repolarization of detrimental BAMs might be a new therapeutic strategy to ameliorate the airway damage in CF."	
27879060		International forum of allergy & rhinology	Evidence of microbiota dysbiosis in chronic rhinosinusitis.	"Despite considerable research, the pathogenesis of chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) remains poorly understood. Potential microbial roles in the etiology or progression of CRS have long been hypothesized, yet few specific associations have been identified. In this study we investigate associations between patterns in resident bacterial communities and clinical variants of CRS. Bacterial communities were assessed in 94 patients with extensive bilateral CRS undergoing endoscopic sinus surgery (ESS) and 29 controls undergoing ESS for indications other than CRS. Patients were grouped on the basis of phenotypic variants (with or without polyposis) and clinical parameters, including asthma and cystic fibrosis. Bacterial communities were characterized via 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing, and quantified by quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Controls and idiopathic CRS subjects tended to be dominated by members of the genera Corynebacterium and Staphylococcus, together with lower abundances of several other genera, including Streptococcus, Moraxella, and Haemophilus. Aberrant (dysbiotic) bacterial assemblages (with changes in community membership and structure, reduced diversity, and increased bacterial load) and increased inter- and intrasubject variability were more common in subjects with comorbidities such as asthma and cystic fibrosis. Dysbiotic communities were variably dominated by members of the genera Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, Haemophilus, Pseudomonas, Moraxella, or Fusobacterium. Bacterial community dysbiosis was more apparent than specific associations with examined phenotypes or endotypes, and may play a role in the pathogenesis or influence the severity of CRS. Reductions in several common core bacterial taxa, increased inter- and intrasubject variability, reduced bacterial diversity, and increased bacterial load characterized aberrant bacterial communities in CRS."	
38140272		Nutrients	Association between Dietary Intake and Faecal Microbiota in Children with Cystic Fibrosis.	"A ""high-fat, high-energy diet"" is commonly recommended for children with cystic fibrosis (CF), leading to negative consequences on dietary patterns that could contribute to altered colonic microbiota. The aim of this study was to assess dietary intake and to identify possible associations with the composition of faecal microbiota in a cohort of children with CF. A cross-sectional observational study was conducted, including a 3-day food record simultaneously with the collection of faecal samples. The results showed a high fat intake (43.9% of total energy intake) and a mean dietary fibre intake of 10.6 g/day. The faecal microbiota was characterised at the phylum level as 54.5% Firmicutes and revealed an altered proportion between Proteobacteria (32%) and Bacteroidota (2.2%). Significant associations were found, including a negative association between protein, meat, and fish intake and Bifidobacterium, a positive association between lipids and  and Streptococcus, a negative association between carbohydrates and  and , and a positive association between total dietary fibre and  and . The results reveal that a ""high-fat, high-energy"" diet does not satisfy dietary fibre intake from healthy food sources in children with CF. Further interventional studies are encouraged to explore the potential of shifting to a high-fibre or standard healthy diet to improve colonic microbiota."	
30675371		NPJ biofilms and microbiomes	Microbiome networks and change-point analysis reveal key community changes associated with cystic fibrosis pulmonary exacerbations.	"Over 90% of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients die due to chronic lung infections leading to respiratory failure. The decline in CF lung function is greatly accelerated by intermittent and progressively severe acute pulmonary exacerbations (PEs). Despite their clinical impact, surprisingly few microbiological signals associated with PEs have been identified. Here we introduce an unsupervised, systems-oriented approach to identify key members of the microbiota. We used two CF sputum microbiome data sets that were longitudinally collected through periods spanning baseline health and PEs. Key taxa were defined based on three strategies: overall relative abundance, prevalence, and co-occurrence network interconnectedness. We measured the association between changes in the abundance of the key taxa and changes in patient clinical status over time via change-point detection, and found that taxa with the highest level of network interconnectedness tracked changes in patient health significantly better than taxa with the highest abundance or prevalence. We also cross-sectionally stratified all samples into the clinical states and identified key taxa associated with each state. We found that network interconnectedness most strongly delineated the taxa among clinical states, and that anaerobic bacteria were over-represented during PEs. Many of these anaerobes are oropharyngeal bacteria that have been previously isolated from the respiratory tract, and/or have been studied for their role in CF. The observed shift in community structure, and the association of anaerobic taxa and PEs lends further support to the growing consensus that anoxic conditions and the subsequent growth of anaerobic microbes are important predictors of PEs."	
26576595		Medecine sciences : M/S	[The emerging concept of lung mycobiome].		
26623545		The ISME journal	"Microbial, host and xenobiotic diversity in the cystic fibrosis sputum metabolome."	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) lungs are filled with thick mucus that obstructs airways and facilitates chronic infections. Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a significant pathogen of this disease that produces a variety of toxic small molecules. We used molecular networking-based metabolomics to investigate the chemistry of CF sputa and assess how the microbial molecules detected reflect the microbiome and clinical culture history of the patients. Metabolites detected included xenobiotics, P. aeruginosa specialized metabolites and host sphingolipids. The clinical culture and microbiome profiles did not correspond to the detection of P. aeruginosa metabolites in the same samples. The P. aeruginosa molecules that were detected in sputum did not match those from laboratory cultures. The pseudomonas quinolone signal (PQS) was readily detectable from cultured strains, but absent from sputum, even when its precursor molecules were present. The lack of PQS production in vivo is potentially due to the chemical nature of the CF lung environment, indicating that culture-based studies of this pathogen may not explain its behavior in the lung. The most differentially abundant molecules between CF and non-CF sputum were sphingolipids, including sphingomyelins, ceramides and lactosylceramide. As these highly abundant molecules contain the inflammatory mediator ceramide, they may have a significant role in CF hyperinflammation. This study demonstrates that the chemical makeup of CF sputum is a complex milieu of microbial, host and xenobiotic molecules. Detection of a bacterium by clinical culturing and 16S rRNA gene profiling do not necessarily reflect the active production of metabolites from that bacterium in a sputum sample."	
31427504		Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Large-scale identification of pathogen essential genes during coinfection with sympatric and allopatric microbes.	"Recent evidence suggests that the genes an organism needs to survive in an environment drastically differ when alone or in a community. However, it is not known if there are universal functions that enable microbes to persist in a community and if there are functions specific to interactions between microbes native to the same (sympatric) or different (allopatric) environments. Here, we ask how the essential functions of the oral pathogen  change during pairwise coinfection in a murine abscess with each of 15 microbes commonly found in the oral cavity and 10 microbes that are not.  was more abundant when coinfected with allopatric than with sympatric microbes, and this increased fitness correlated with expanded metabolic capacity of the coinfecting microbes. Using transposon sequencing, we discovered that 33% of the  genome is required for coinfection fitness. Fifty-nine ""core"" genes were required across all coinfections and included genes necessary for aerobic respiration. The core genes were also all required in monoinfection, indicating the essentiality of these genes cannot be alleviated by a coinfecting microbe. Furthermore, coinfection with some microbes, predominately sympatric species, induced the requirement for over 100 new community-dependent essential genes. In contrast, in other coinfections, predominately with nonoral species,  required 50 fewer genes than in monoinfection, demonstrating that some allopatric microbes can drastically alleviate gene essentialities. These results expand our understanding of how diverse microbes alter growth and gene essentiality within polymicrobial infections."	
26544950		PloS one	Lung Microbiota Changes Associated with Chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa Lung Infection and the Impact of Intravenous Colistimethate Sodium.	"Exacerbations associated with chronic lung infection with Pseudomonas aeruginosa are a major contributor to morbidity, mortality and premature death in cystic fibrosis. Such exacerbations are treated with antibiotics, which generally lead to an improvement in lung function and reduced sputum P. aeruginosa density. This potentially suggests a role for the latter in the pathogenesis of exacerbations. However, other data suggesting that changes in P. aeruginosa sputum culture status may not reliably predict an improvement in clinical status, and data indicating no significant changes in either total bacterial counts or in P. aeruginosa numbers in sputum samples collected prior to pulmonary exacerbation sheds doubt on this assumption. We used our recently developed lung segmental model of chronic Pseudomonas infection in sheep to investigate the lung microbiota changes associated with chronic P. aeruginosa lung infection and the impact of systemic therapy with colistimethate sodium (CMS). We collected protected specimen brush (PSB) samples from sheep (n = 8) both prior to and 14 days after establishment of chronic local lung infection with P aeruginosa. Samples were taken from both directly infected lung segments (direct) and segments spatially remote to such sites (remote). Four sheep were treated with daily intravenous injections of CMS between days 7 and 14, and four were treated with a placebo. Necropsy examination at d14 confirmed the presence of chronic local lung infection and lung pathology in every direct lung segment. The predominant orders in lung microbiota communities before infection were Bacillales, Actinomycetales and Clostridiales. While lung microbiota samples were more likely to share similarities with other samples derived from the same lung, considerable within- and between-animal heterogeneity could be appreciated. Pseudomonadales joined the aforementioned list of predominant orders in lung microbiota communities after infection. Whilst treatment with CMS appeared to have little impact on microbial community composition after infection, or the change undergone by communities in reaching that state, when Gram negative organisms (excluding Pseudomonadales) were considered together as a group there was a significant decrease in their relative proportion that was only observed in the sheep treated with CMS. With only one exception the reduction was seen in both direct and remote lung segments. This reduction, coupled with generally increasing or stable levels of Pseudomonadales, meant that the proportion of the latter relative to total Gram negative bacteria increased in all bar one direct and one remote lung segment. The proportional increase in Pseudomonadales relative to other Gram negative bacteria in the lungs of sheep treated with systemic CMS highlights the potential for such therapies to inadvertently select or create a niche for bacteria seeding from a persistent source of chronic infection."	
9025076		Molecular and cellular probes	"Polymerase chain reaction for the detection of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia and Burkholderia cepacia in sputum of patients with cystic fibrosis."	"Occurrence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Stenotrophomonas (Xanthomonas) maltophilia and Burkholderia (Pseudomonas) cepacia in sputum of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients was demonstrated with a simple and rapid polymerase chain reaction (PCR) technique. The PCR was performed with a set of three primer pairs based on 16S rRNA sequences after sputum preparation with dithiothreitol and NaOH lysis. All three pathogens could be individually detected by the use of this technique. To prevent carry-over contamination, dUTP and uracil-N-glycosylase were included in the reaction. The amplicons were visualized by agarose gel electrophoresis. Sputum culture was performed on all samples. Ninety specimens from CF patients were analysed. The sensitivity for the detection of P. aeruginosa was 37/40 (93%) compared to culture. Bacterial growth of P. aeruginosa was found in three cases, where PCR amplicons were not detected, while PCR was positive in five cases, where culture did not reveal the presence of this bacterium. For this reason, the specificity was 45/50 (90%). For S. maltophilia, the PCR was less sensitive than culture (positive in three of six cases). In our series, B. cepacia was detected by culture in one case and this was also detected by PCR. There were no false-positive PCR results regarding S. maltophilia or B. cepacia. Thus, combined PCR-based detection of these three clinically relevant bacteria in sputum samples from CF patients can be performed by a reliable technique in a relatively simple manner. The present data indicate a high sensitivity and specificity for P. aeruginosa. The lower sensitivity observed for the detection of S. maltophilia in sputum and B. cepacia, as estimated from laboratory strains, may depend on PCR conditions and genetic heterogeneity, respectively. The greatest gains with this method can be made when it is used for the early detection of P. aeruginosa in sputum-producing CF patients."	
35486871		American journal of respiratory cell and molecular biology	"Cystic Fibrosis Airway Mucus Hyperconcentration Produces a Vicious Cycle of Mucin, Pathogen, and Inflammatory Interactions that Promotes Disease Persistence."	"The dynamics describing the vicious cycle characteristic of cystic fibrosis (CF) lung disease, initiated by stagnant mucus and perpetuated by infection and inflammation, remain unclear. Here we determine the effect of the CF airway milieu, with persistent mucoobstruction, resident pathogens, and inflammation, on the mucin quantity and quality that govern lung disease pathogenesis and progression. The concentrations of MUC5AC and MUC5B were measured and characterized in sputum samples from subjects with CF ( = 44) and healthy subjects ( = 29) with respect to their macromolecular properties, degree of proteolysis, and glycomics diversity. These parameters were related to quantitative microbiome and clinical data. MUC5AC and MUC5B concentrations were elevated, 30- and 8-fold, respectively, in CF as compared with control sputum. Mucin parameters did not correlate with hypertonic saline, inhaled corticosteroids, or antibiotics use. No differences in mucin parameters were detected at baseline versus during exacerbations. Mucin concentrations significantly correlated with the age and sputum human neutrophil elastase activity. Although significantly more proteolytic cleavages were detected in CF mucins, their macromolecular properties (e.g., size and molecular weight) were not significantly different than control mucins, likely reflecting the role of  bonds in maintaining multimeric structures. No evidence of giant mucin macromolecule reflecting oxidative stress-induced cross-linking was found. Mucin glycomic analysis revealed significantly more sialylated glycans in CF, and the total abundance of nonsulfated O-glycans correlated with the relative abundance of pathogens. Collectively, the interaction of mucins, pathogens, epithelium, and inflammatory cells promotes proteomic and glycomic changes that reflect a persistent mucoobstructive, infectious, and inflammatory state."	
29887843		Frontiers in microbiology	Benchmark Evaluation of True Single Molecular Sequencing to Determine Cystic Fibrosis Airway Microbiome Diversity.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an autosomal recessive disease associated with recurrent lung infections that can lead to morbidity and mortality. The impact of antibiotics for treatment of acute pulmonary exacerbations on the CF airway microbiome remains unclear with prior studies giving conflicting results and being limited by their use of 16S ribosomal RNA sequencing. Our primary objective was to validate the use of true single molecular sequencing (tSMS) and PathoScope in the analysis of the CF airway microbiome. Three control samples were created with differing amounts of , , and , three common bacteria found in cystic fibrosis lungs. Paired sputa were also obtained from three study participants with CF before and >6 days after initiation of antibiotics. Antibiotic resistant  and  were identified in concurrently obtained respiratory cultures. Direct sequencing was performed using tSMS, and filtered reads were aligned to reference genomes from NCBI using PathoScope and Kraken and unique clade-specific marker genes using MetaPhlAn. A total of 180-518 K of 6-12 million filtered reads were aligned for each sample. Detection of known pathogens in control samples was most successful using PathoScope. In the CF sputa, alpha diversity measures varied based on the alignment method used, but similar trends were found between pre- and post-antibiotic samples. PathoScope outperformed Kraken and MetaPhlAn in our validation study of artificial bacterial community controls and also has advantages over Kraken and MetaPhlAn of being able to determine bacterial strains and the presence of fungal organisms. PathoScope can be confidently used when evaluating metagenomic data to determine CF airway microbiome diversity."	
38275294		mBio	Longitudinal profiling of the intestinal microbiome in children with cystic fibrosis treated with elexacaftor-tezacaftor-ivacaftor.	"The intestinal microbiome influences growth and disease progression in children with cystic fibrosis (CF). Elexacaftor-tezacaftor-ivacaftor (ELX/TEZ/IVA), the newest pharmaceutical modulator for CF, restores the function of the pathogenic mutated CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) channel. We performed a single-center longitudinal analysis of the effect of ELX/TEZ/IVA on the intestinal microbiome, intestinal inflammation, and clinical parameters in children with CF. Following ELX/TEZ/IVA, children with CF had significant improvements in body mass index and percent predicted forced expiratory volume in one second, and required fewer antibiotics for respiratory infections. Intestinal microbiome diversity increased following ELX/TEZ/IVA coupled with a decrease in the intestinal carriage of , the predominant respiratory pathogen in children with CF. There was a reduced abundance of microbiome-encoded antibiotic resistance genes. Microbial pathways for aerobic respiration were reduced after ELX/TEZ/IVA. The abundance of microbial acid tolerance genes was reduced, indicating microbial adaptation to increased CFTR function. In all, this study represents the first comprehensive analysis of the intestinal microbiome in children with CF receiving ELX/TEZ/IVA.IMPORTANCECystic fibrosis (CF) is an autosomal recessive disease with significant gastrointestinal symptoms in addition to pulmonary complications. Recently approved treatments for CF, CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) modulators, are anticipated to substantially improve the care of people with CF and extend their lifespans. Prior work has shown that the intestinal microbiome correlates with health outcomes in CF, particularly in children. Here, we study the intestinal microbiome of children with CF before and after the CFTR modulator, ELX/TEZ/IVA. We identify promising improvements in microbiome diversity, reduced measures of intestinal inflammation, and reduced antibiotic resistance genes. We present specific bacterial taxa and protein groups which change following ELX/TEZ/IVA. These results will inform future mechanistic studies to understand the microbial improvements associated with CFTR modulator treatment. This study demonstrates how the microbiome can change in response to a targeted medication that corrects a genetic disease."	
33028687		mSphere	Pseudomonas aeruginosa Volatilome Characteristics and Adaptations in Chronic Cystic Fibrosis Lung Infections.	"chronic lung infections in individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF) significantly reduce quality of life and increase morbidity and mortality. Tracking these infections is critical for monitoring patient health and informing treatments. We are working toward the development of novel breath-based biomarkers to track chronic  lung infections  Using comprehensive two-dimensional gas chromatography coupled with time-of-flight mass spectrometry (GC×GC-TOF-MS), we characterized the  volatile metabolomes (""volatilomes"") of 81  isolates collected from 17 CF patients over at least a 5-year period of their chronic lung infections. We detected 539 volatiles produced by the  isolates, 69 of which were core volatiles that were highly conserved. We found that each early infection isolate has a unique volatilome, and as infection progresses, the volatilomes of isolates from the same patient become increasingly dissimilar, to the point that these intrapatient isolates are no more similar to one another than to isolates from other patients. We observed that the size and chemical diversity of  volatilomes do not change over the course of chronic infections; however, the relative abundances of core hydrocarbons, alcohols, and aldehydes do change and are correlated with changes in phenotypes associated with chronic infections. This study indicates that it may be feasible to track  chronic lung infections by measuring changes to the infection volatilome and lays the groundwork for exploring the translatability of this approach to direct measurement using patient breath. is a leading cause of chronic lung infections in cystic fibrosis (CF), which are correlated with lung function decline. Significant clinical efforts are therefore aimed at detecting infections and tracking them for phenotypic changes, such as mucoidy and antibiotic resistance. Both the detection and tracking of lung infections rely on sputum cultures, but due to improvements in CF therapies, sputum production is declining, although risks for lung infections persist. Therefore, we are working toward the development of breath-based diagnostics for CF lung infections. In this study, we characterized of the volatile metabolomes of 81  clinical isolates collected from 17 CF patients over a duration of at least 5 years of a chronic lung infection. We found that the volatilome of  adapts over time and is correlated with infection phenotype changes, suggesting that it may be possible to track chronic CF lung infections with a breath test."	
27810876		FEMS microbiology ecology	Impact of cystic fibrosis disease on archaea and bacteria composition of gut microbiota.	"Cystic fibrosis is often associated with intestinal inflammation due to several factors, including altered gut microbiota composition. In this study, we analyzed the fecal microbiota among patients with cystic fibrosis of 10-22 years of age, and compared the findings with age-matched healthy subjects. The participating patients included 14 homozygotes and 14 heterozygotes with the delF508 mutation, and 2 heterozygotes presenting non-delF508 mutations. We used PCR-DGGE and qPCR to analyze the presence of bacteria, archaea and sulfate-reducing bacteria. Overall, our findings confirmed disruption of the cystic fibrosis gut microbiota. Principal component analysis of the qPCR data revealed no differences between homozygotes and heterozygotes, while both groups were distinct from healthy subjects who showed higher biodiversity. Archaea were under the detection limit in all homozygotes subjects, whereas methanogens were detected in 62% of both cystic fibrosis heterozygotes and healthy subjects. Our qPCR results revealed a low frequency of sulfate-reducing bacteria in the homozygote (13%) and heterozygote (13%) patients with cystic fibrosis compared with healthy subjects (87.5%). This is a pioneer study showing that patients with cystic fibrosis exhibit significant reduction of H-consuming microorganisms, which could increase hydrogen accumulation in the colon and the expulsion of this gas through non-microbial routes."	
37450508		PloS one	Microbiology sampling in non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis cases from northern Alberta.	"Non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis (NCFB) is a chronic respiratory disease resulting in chronic cough, thick sputum, and lower airway microbial colonization, akin to patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). NCFB is a common, yet under recognized entity which inflicts significant morbidity and mortality particularly to older individuals, with a rising prevalence in the developed world. Given that sputum cultures are a non-invasive method to characterize the lower airway microbiota in NCFB patients, for which pathogenic organisms are associated with worsened outcomes, we sought to characterize the microbiological pattern and clinical outcomes associated with sputum culture in a cohort of NCFB patients from Western Canada. A total of 20 subjects were prospectively recruited from various bronchiectasis clinics across the Greater Edmonton area. A retrospective chart review and a symptoms questionnaire was performed, gathering information not limited to symptoms, comorbidities, exacerbations, hospitalizations, sputum production, and sputum culture results over the prior 5 years. Subjects reported frequent hospitalization alongside a significant burden of symptoms. A large majority of sputum cultures grew pathogenic organisms such as Haemophilus influenzae and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. We also note the considerable waste and inefficiency associated with sputum cultures, outlining areas for which this important diagnostic modality can be improved. Accurate characterization of the airway microbiota alongside efficient delivery of health services are key to ensuring the proper treatment of individuals with NCFB, given their high disease burden and frequent hospitalization."	
32826922		Scientific reports	Obesity and ethnicity alter gene expression in skin.	"Obesity is accompanied by dysfunction of many organs, but effects on the skin have received little attention. We studied differences in epithelial thickness by histology and gene expression by Affymetrix gene arrays and PCR in the skin of 10 obese (BMI 35-50) and 10 normal weight (BMI 18.5-26.9) postmenopausal women paired by age and ethnicity. Epidermal thickness did not differ with obesity but the expression of genes encoding proteins associated with skin blood supply and wound healing were altered. In the obese, many gene expression pathways were broadly downregulated and subdermal fat showed pronounced inflammation. There were no changes in skin microbiota or metabolites. African American subjects differed from European Americans with a trend to increased epidermal thickening. In obese African Americans, compared to obese European Americans, we observed altered gene expression that may explain known differences in water content and stress response. African Americans showed markedly lower expression of the gene encoding the cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator characteristic of the disease cystic fibrosis. The results from this preliminary study may explain the functional changes found in the skin of obese subjects and African Americans."	
36371030		Clinical microbiology and infection : the official publication of the European Society of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases	"Fungal microbiota dynamics and its geographic, age and gender variability in patients with cystic fibrosis."	"In cystic fibrosis (CF), there is a predisposition to bronchial colonization by potentially pathogenic microorganisms, such as fungi. Our aims were to describe the dynamics of respiratory mycobiota in patients with CF and to evaluate the geographic, age and gender variability in its distribution. Cohort study in which 45 patients with CF from four hospitals in three Spanish cities were followed up during a 1-year period, obtaining spontaneous sputum samples every 3 to 6 months. Fungal microbiota were characterized by Internal Transcribed Spacer sequencing and Pneumocystis jirovecii was identified by nested PCR in a total of 180 samples. The presence of fungi were detected in 119 (66.11%) of the 180 samples and in 44 (97.8%) of the 45 patients: 19 were positive and 1 negative throughout all follow-ups and the remaining 25 presented alternation between positive and negative results. A total of 16 different genera were identified, with Candida spp. (50/180, 27.78%) and Pneumocystis spp. (44/180, 24.44%) being the most prevalent ones. The distribution of fungal genera was different among the evaluated centres (p < 0.05), by age (non-adults aged 6-17 years vs. adults aged ≥18 years) (p < 0.05) and by gender (p < 0.05). A high prevalence of fungal respiratory microbiota in patients with CF was observed, whose dynamics are characterized by the existence of multiple cycles of clearance and colonization, reporting the existence of geographic, age and gender variability in the distribution of fungal genera in this disease."	
24636808		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Improvement of digestive health and reduction in proteobacterial populations in the gut microbiota of cystic fibrosis patients using a Lactobacillus reuteri probiotic preparation: a double blind prospective study.	"Although scientific knowledge about the benefits of probiotic use in cystis fibrosis (CF) is scarce, their expectative is promising. The aim of this work was to analyze the effect of a Lactobacillus reuteri probiotic preparation versus placebo in CF patients. A prospective, double blind, crossover and with placebo study was carried out in 30 CF patients from two Spanish hospitals. Patients were randomized in Group A (6 months of probiotic followed by 6 months of placebo) and Group B (6 months of placebo followed by 6 months of probiotic). GIQLI (gastrointestinal) and SF-12 (general) health tests were performed after probiotic and placebo intakes. Fat absorption coefficient, calprotectin, and inflammatory interleukin quantification were determined in fecal samples. Total fecal DNA was obtained and metagenomic 454-pyrosequencing was applied to analyze the microbiome composition. STATA v12 MP software was used for statistical analyses. Statistically significant improvement in the gastrointestinal health and decrease of the calprotectin levels were demonstrated in patients after probiotic exposure, in comparison with placebo. All CF subjects reported good tolerance to L. reuteri without secondary effects. Metagenomic analysis showed an important dysbiosis in CF gut microbiota associated with a high concentration of Proteobacteria. Probiotic intake was followed by a reduction in the total bacterial density, mostly due to a considerable reduction in the γ-Proteobacteria phylum; and an important increase of the microbial diversity with a higher representation of Firmicutes. Probiotics might ameliorate the dysbiosis of CF gut microbiota, characterized by a high density of Proteobacterial organisms. L. reuteri significantly decrease intestinal inflammation and increase digestive comfort."	
35638249		ChemMedChem	Towards Innovative Antibacterial Correctors for Cystic Fibrosis Targeting the Lung Microbiome with a Multifunctional Effect.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a genetic disease caused by loss-of-function mutations in the CFTR gene, which codes for a defective ion channel. This causes an electrolyte imbalance and results in a spiral of negative effects on multiple organs, most notably the accumulation of thick mucus in the lungs, chronic respiratory tract infections and inflammation leading to pulmonary exacerbation and premature death. Progressive decline of lung function is mainly linked to persistent or recurring infections, mostly caused by bacteria, which require treatments with antibiotics and represent one of the major life-limiting factors in subjects with CF. Treatment of such a complex disease require multiple drugs with a consequent therapeutic burden and complications caused by drug-drug interactions and rapid emergence of bacterial drug resistance. We report herein our recent efforts in developing innovative multifunctional antibiotics specifically tailored to CF by a direct action on bacterial topoisomerases and a potential indirect effect on the pulmonary mucociliary clearance mediated by ΔF508-CFTR correction. The obtained results may pave the way for the development of a simplified therapeutic approach with a single agent acting as multifunctional Antibacterial-Corrector."	
30773532		Genetics in medicine : official journal of the American College of Medical Genetics	Population genomic screening of all young adults in a health-care system: a cost-effectiveness analysis.	"To consider the impact and cost-effectiveness of offering preventive population genomic screening to all young adults in a single-payer health-care system. We modeled screening of 2,688,192 individuals, all adults aged 18-25 years in Australia, for pathogenic variants in BRCA1/BRCA2/MLH1/MSH2 genes, and carrier screening for cystic fibrosis (CF), spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), and fragile X syndrome (FXS), at 71% testing uptake using per-test costs ranging from AUD$200 to $1200 (~USD$140 to $850). Investment costs included genetic counseling, surveillance, and interventions (reimbursed only) for at-risk individuals/couples. Cost-effectiveness was defined below AUD$50,000/DALY (disability-adjusted life year) prevented, using an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER), compared with current targeted testing. Outcomes were cancer incidence/mortality, disease cases, and treatment costs reduced. Population screening would reduce variant-attributable cancers by 28.8%, cancer deaths by 31.2%, and CF/SMA/FXS cases by 24.8%, compared with targeted testing. Assuming AUD$400 per test, investment required would be between 4 and 5 times higher than current expenditure. However, screening would lead to substantial savings in medical costs and DALYs prevented, at a highly cost-effective ICER of AUD$4038/DALY. At AUD$200 per test, screening would approach cost-saving for the health system (ICER = AUD$22/DALY). Preventive genomic screening in early adulthood would be highly cost-effective in a single-payer health-care system, but ethical issues must be considered."	
37428539		"Microbiology (Reading, England)"	Preclinical testing of antimicrobials for cystic fibrosis lung infections: current needs and future priorities.	"A workshop was held by the PIPE-CF strategic research centre to consider preclinical testing of antimicrobials for cystic fibrosis (CF). The workshop brought together groups of people from the CF community to discuss current challenges and identify priorities when developing CF therapeutics. This paper summarizes the key points from the workshop from the different sessions, including talks given by presenters on the day and round table discussions. Currently, it is felt that there is a large disconnect throughout the community, with communication between patients, clinicians and researchers being the main issue. This leads to little consideration being given to factors such as treatment regimes, routes of administration and side effects when developing new therapies, that could alter the day-to-day lifestyles of people living with CF. Translation of numerical data that are obtained in the laboratory to successful outcomes of clinical trials is also a key challenge facing researchers today. Laboratory assays in preclinical testing involve basing results on bacterial clearance and decrease in viable cells, when these are not factors that are considered when determining the success of a treatment in the clinic. However, there are several models currently in development that seek to tackle some of these issues, such as the organ-on-a-chip technology and adaptation of a hollow-fibre model, as well as the development of media that aim to mimic the niche environments of a CF respiratory tract. It is hoped that by summarizing these opinions and discussing current research, the communication gap between groups can begin to close."	
23613881		PloS one	Higher prevalence and abundance of Bdellovibrio bacteriovorus in the human gut of healthy subjects.	"Members of the human intestinal microbiota are key players in maintaining human health. Alterations in the composition of gut microbial community (dysbiosis) have been linked with important human diseases. Understanding the underlying processes that control community structure, including the bacterial interactions within the microbiota itself, is essential. Bdellovibrio bacteriovorus is a gram-negative bacterium that preys other gram-negative species for survival, acting as a population-balancer. It was found in terrestrial/aquatic ecosystems, and in animal intestines, postulating its presence also in the human gut. The present study was aimed to evaluate, by end-point PCR and qPCR, the presence of B. bacteriovorus in intestinal and faecal biopsy specimens from 92 paediatric healthy subjects and patients, suffering from Inflammatory Bowel Diseases (IBD), Celiac disease and Cystic fibrosis (CF). i) B. bacteriovorus was present and abundant only in healthy individuals, while it was heavily reduced in patients, as in the case of IBD and Celiac, while in CF patients and relative controls we observed comparable results; ii) B. bacteriovorus seemed to be mucosa-associated, because all IBD and Celiac biopsies (and related controls) were treated with mucus-removing agents, leaving only the mucosa-attached microflora; iii) B. bacteriovorus abundance was district-dependent, with a major preponderance in duodenum, and gradually decreasing up to rectum; iv) B. bacteriovorus levels significantly dropped in disease status, in duodenum and ileum. Results obtained in this study could represent the first step for new therapeutic strategies aimed to restore a balance in the intestinal ecosystem, utilizing Bdellovibrio as a probiotic."	
33250435		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	The cystic fibrosis gut as a potential source of multidrug resistant pathogens.	"The emergence of multidrug resistant (MDR) pathogens represents a profound threat to global health. Individuals with CF have amongst the highest cumulative antibiotic exposure of any patient group, including to critically-important last-line agents. While there is little evidence that antibiotic resistance in airway pathogens results in worse clinical outcomes for CF patients, the potential emergence of MDR pathogens in non-respiratory systems, as a consequence of CF care, represents a potential health threat to the wider population, including family and carers. Stool from 19 adults with CF and 16 healthy adult controls was subjected to metagenomic sequencing, to assess faecal resistome, and culture-based analysis. Resistant isolates were identified phenotypically, and genetic determinants of resistance characterised by whole genome sequencing. CF and control faecal resistomes differed significantly (P = 0.0003). The proportion of reads that mapped to mobile genetic elements was significantly higher in CF (P = 0.014) and the composition was significantly different (P = 0.0001). Notably, CF patients displayed higher carriage of plasmid-mediated aminoglycoside-modifying genes ant(6)-Ib, aac(6')-Ip, and aph(3')-IIIa (P < 0.01). Culture-based analysis supported higher aminoglycoside resistance, with a higher proportion of aminoglycoside-resistant, Gram-negative bacteria (P < 0.0001). Isolated extended spectrum beta lactamase (ESBL)-positive Escherichia coli from CF stool exhibited phenotypic resistance to tobramycin and gentamicin. Genomic analysis showed co-localisation of both aminoglycoside resistance and ESBL genes, consistent with MDR emergence through horizontal gene transfer. The carriage of potentially transmissible resistance within the adult CF gut microbiome is considerably greater than in healthy individuals and could contribute to the emergence and dissemination of MDR pathogens."	
34769481		International journal of molecular sciences	Multi-Omics Study of Keystone Species in a Cystic Fibrosis Microbiome.	"Ecological networking and in vitro studies predict that anaerobic, mucus-degrading bacteria are keystone species in cystic fibrosis (CF) microbiomes. The metabolic byproducts from these bacteria facilitate the colonization and growth of CF pathogens like . Here, a multi-omics study informed the control of putative anaerobic keystone species during a transition in antibiotic therapy of a CF patient. A quantitative metagenomics approach combining sequence data with epifluorescence microscopy showed that during periods of rapid lung function loss, the patient's lung microbiome was dominated by the anaerobic, mucus-degrading bacteria belonging to , , and  genera. Untargeted metabolomics and community cultures identified high rates of fermentation in these sputa, with the accumulation of lactic acid, citric acid, and acetic acid.  utilized these fermentation products for growth, as indicated by quantitative transcriptomics data. Transcription levels of  genes for the utilization of fermentation products were proportional to the abundance of anaerobic bacteria. Clindamycin therapy targeting Gram-positive anaerobes rapidly suppressed anaerobic bacteria and the accumulation of fermentation products. Clindamycin also lowered the abundance and transcription of  even though this patient's strain was resistant to this antibiotic. The treatment stabilized the patient's lung function and improved respiratory health for two months, lengthening by a factor of four the between-hospitalization time for this patient. Killing anaerobes indirectly limited the growth of  by disrupting the cross-feeding of fermentation products. This case study supports the hypothesis that facultative anaerobes operated as keystone species in this CF microbiome. Personalized multi-omics may become a viable approach for routine clinical diagnostics in the future, providing critical information to inform treatment decisions."	
38724179		The European respiratory journal	From gut to lung and back again: early life microbiota in cystic fibrosis.		
33394582		Journal of pediatric gastroenterology and nutrition	Influence of Acid Blockade on the Aerodigestive Tract Microbiome in Children With Cystic Fibrosis.	"Acid blockade is commonly prescribed in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). Growing concerns, however, exist about its possible role in the pathophysiology of pulmonary infections. We aimed to investigate if acid blockade alters esophageal and respiratory microbiota leading to dysbiosis and inflammation. We performed a cross sectional study of children with CF who were either prescribed acid blockade or not. Samples from the gastrointestinal and respiratory tracts were obtained and microbiome analyzed. Mixed effect models were used to compare outcomes between cohorts and across sampling sites. A random subject intercept was included to account for the multiple sampling sites per individual. A cohort of 25 individuals, 44% girls with median age of 13.8 years [IQR 11.2--14.8] were enrolled. Alpha diversity, total bacterial load, and beta diversity were similar across anatomic compartments, across the upper gastrointestinal tract, and in respiratory samples. Similar alpha diversity, total bacterial load, and beta diversity results were also observed when comparing individuals on versus those off acid blockade. IL-8 was elevated in the distal versus proximal esophagus in the whole cohort (P < 0.01). IL-8 concentrations were similar in the distal esophagus in patients on and off acid blockade, but significantly greater in the proximal esophagus of subjects on treatment (P < 0.01). On the basis of these data, acid blockade use does not appear to influence the microbiome of the aerodigestive tract in children with cystic fibrosis suggesting a complex interplay between these medications and the bacterial composition of the esophagus and lung."	
35092114		Journal of human nutrition and dietetics : the official journal of the British Dietetic Association	Probiotic use in adults with cystic fibrosis is common and influenced by gastrointestinal health needs: A cross-sectional survey study.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) primarily affects the lung, however, gastrointestinal disorders and symptoms, including dysbiosis, also impact on morbidity and quality of life. There is interest in strategies to modulate the gastrointestinal microbiota, including probiotics, although the evidence remains inadequate to guide practice, and information on use is limited. The present study aimed to characterise probiotic use, beliefs and experiences of adults with CF. A cross-sectional questionnaire study was conducted in adults with CF (n = 205) and a general population Control group (n = 158), recruited from Victoria, Australia. Participants were classified as probiotic 'Ever Users' or 'Never Users'. Outcomes included self-reported probiotic use and factors associated with probiotic use, which were analysed using logistic regression analysis. Open-ended questionnaire responses were thematically analysed. In total, 70% of adults with CF had ever used probiotics (supplements and/or foods), comparable to Controls (80%) (p = 0.03). Key reasons for CF probiotic use were gastrointestinal- and antibiotic-related (75%). Most CF Ever Users (73%) did not discuss probiotic use with CF clinicians and 33% were uncertain if probiotics had been helpful. Female gender (odds ratio [OR] = 2.82; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.36-5.87; p = 0.005), university-level education (OR = 2.73; 95% CI = 1.24-6.01; p = 0.01) and bloating on antibiotics (OR = 2.14; 95% CI = 1.04-4.40; p = 0.04) were independently associated with probiotic use in CF; as was female gender in Controls (OR = 2.84; 95% CI = 1.20-6.71; p = 0.02). Probiotics were used by adults with CF for gastrointestinal- and antibiotic-related reasons often without informing clinicians and despite uncertainty about perceived helpfulness. Further research investigating gastrointestinal outcomes of probiotics will inform practice recommendations guiding their use in CF and other chronic diseases."	
36312921		Frontiers in microbiology	Quick and wide-range taxonomical repertoire establishment of the cystic fibrosis lung microbiota by tandem mass spectrometry on sputum samples.	"Microorganisms proteotyping by tandem mass spectrometry has been recently shown as a powerful methodology to identify the wide-range taxonomy and biomass of microbiota. Sputum is the recommended specimen for routine microbiological monitoring of Cystic Fibrosis () patients but has been rarely submitted to tandem mass spectrometry-based proteotyping. In this study, we compared the microbial components of spontaneous and induced sputum samples from three cystic fibrosis patients. Although the presence of microbial proteins is much lower than host proteins, we report that the microbiota's components present in the samples can be identified, as well as host biomarkers and functional insights into the microbiota. No significant difference was found in microorganism abundance between paired spontaneous and induced sputum samples. Microbial proteins linked to resistance, iron uptake, and biofilm-forming ability were observed in sputa independently of the sampling method. This unbiased and enlarged view of the  microbiome could be highly complementary to culture and relevant for the clinical management of  patients by improving knowledge about the host-pathogen dynamics and  pathophysiology."	
29056429		Cell host & microbe	Three-Dimensional Microbiome and Metabolome Cartography of a Diseased Human Lung.	"Our understanding of the spatial variation in the chemical and microbial makeup of an entire human organ remains limited, in part due to the size and heterogeneity of human organs and the complexity of the associated metabolome and microbiome. To address this challenge, we developed a workflow to enable the cartography of metabolomic and microbiome data onto a three-dimensional (3D) organ reconstruction built off radiological images. This enabled the direct visualization of the microbial and chemical makeup of a human lung from a cystic fibrosis patient. We detected host-derived molecules, microbial metabolites, medications, and region-specific metabolism of medications and placed it in the context of microbial distributions in the lung. Our tool further created browsable maps of a 3D microbiome/metabolome reconstruction map on a radiological image of a human lung and forms an interactive resource for the scientific community."	
33139450		Thorax	Airway microbiome studies challenge simplistic models of inhaled tobramycin benefit.		
27177192		The ISME journal	"The fermentation product 2,3-butanediol alters P. aeruginosa clearance, cytokine response and the lung microbiome."	"Diseases that favor colonization of the respiratory tract with Pseudomonas aeruginosa are characterized by an altered airway microbiome. Virulence of P. aeruginosa respiratory tract infection is likely influenced by interactions with other lung microbiota or their products. The bacterial fermentation product 2,3-butanediol enhances virulence and biofilm formation of P. aeruginosa in vitro. This study assessed the effects of 2,3-butanediol on P. aeruginosa persistence, inflammatory response, and the lung microbiome in vivo. Here, P. aeruginosa grown in the presence of 2,3-butanediol and encapsulated in agar beads persisted longer in the murine respiratory tract, induced enhanced TNF-α and IL-6 responses and resulted in increased colonization in the lung tissue by environmental microbes. These results led to the following hypothesis that now needs to be tested with a larger study: fermentation products from the lung microbiota not only have a role in P. aeruginosa virulence and abundance, but also on the increased colonization of the respiratory tract with environmental microbes, resulting in dynamic shifts in microbiota diversity and disease susceptibility."	
36934050		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Effects of postage on recovery of pathogens from cystic fibrosis sputum samples.	"Regular surveillance microbiology of sputum is used in cystic fibrosis (CF) to monitor for new pathogens and target treatments. A move to remote clinics has meant greater reliance on samples collected at home and posted back. The impact of delays and sample disruption caused by posting has not been systematically assessed but could have significant implications for CF microbiology. Sputum samples collected from adult CF patients were mixed, split, and either processed immediately or posted back to laboratory. Processing involved a further split into aliquots for culture-dependant and-independent microbiology (quantitative PCR [QPCR] and microbiota sequencing). We calculated retrieval by both approaches for five typical CF pathogens: Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Burkholderia cepacia complex, Achromobacter xylosoxidans, Staphylococcus aureus and Stenotrophomonas maltophilia. 93 paired samples were collected from 73 CF patients. Median interval between sample posting and receipt was 5 days (range 1-10). For culture, overall concordance for posted and fresh samples was 86% across the five targeted pathogens (ranging from 57 to 100% for different organisms), with no bias towards either sample type. For QPCR, overall concordance was 62% (range 39-84%), again with no bias towards fresh or posted samples. There were no significant differences in culture or QPCR for samples with short (≤3days) versus extended (≥7days) postal delays. Posting had no significant impact on pathogen abundance nor on microbiota characteristics. Posted sputum samples reliably reproduced culture-based and molecular microbiology of freshly collected samples, even after prolonged delays at ambient conditions. This supports use of posted samples during remote monitoring."	
28450530		Thorax	Lessons from the lower airway microbiome in early CF.		
35078737		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	The lung microbiota in children with cystic fibrosis captured by induced sputum sampling.	"Spatial topography of the cystic fibrosis (CF) lung microbiota is poorly understood in childhood. How best to sample the respiratory tract in children for microbiota analysis, and the utility of microbiota profiling in clinical management of early infection remains unclear. By comparison with bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL), we assessed the ability of induced sputum (IS) sampling to characterise the lower airway microbiota. Sample sets from IS and two or three matched BAL compartments were obtained for microbiota analysis as part of the CF-Sputum Induction Trial (UKCRN_14615, ISRCTNR_12473810). Microbiota profiles and pathogen detection were compared between matched samples. Twenty-eight patients, aged 1.1-17.7 years, provided 30 sample sets. Within-patient BAL comparisons revealed spatial heterogeneity in 8/30 (27%) sample sets indicating that the lower airway microbiota from BAL is frequently compartmentalised in children with CF. IS samples closely resembled one or more matched BAL compartments in 15/30 (50%) sets, and were related in composition in a further 9/30 (30%). IS detected 86.2% of the Top 5 genera found across matched BAL samples. The sensitivity of IS to detect specific CF-pathogens identified in matched BAL samples at relative abundance ≥5% varied between 43 and 100%, with negative predictive values between 73 and 100%. Spatial heterogeneity of the lower airway microbiota was observed in BAL samples and presents difficulties for consistent lung sampling. IS captured a microbiota signature representative of the lower airway in 80% of cases, and is a straightforward, non-invasive intervention that can be performed frequently to aid pathogen diagnosis and understand microbiota evolution in children with CF."	
29331105		Molecular nutrition & food research	Dietary Factors Modulate Colonic Tumorigenesis Through the Interaction of Gut Microbiota and Host Chloride Channels.	"In recent decades, the association among diet, gut microbiota, and the risk of colorectal cancer (CRC) has been established. Gut microbiota and associated metabolites, such as bile acids and butyrate, are now known to play a key role in CRC development. The aim of this study is to identify that the progression to CRC is influenced by cholic acid, sodium butyrate, a high-fat diet, or different dose of dihydromyricetin (DMY) interacted with gut microbiota. An AOM/DSS (azoxymethan/dextran sodium sulfate) model is established to study the gut microbiota compsition before and after tumor formation during colitis-induced tumorigenesis. All above dietary factors profoundly influence the composition of gut microbiota and host colonic tumorigenesis. In addition, mice with DMY-modified initial microbiota display different degrees of chemically induced tumorigenesis. Mechanism analysis reveals that gut microbiota-associated chloride channels participated in colon tumorigenesis. Gut microbiota changes occur in the hyperproliferative stage before tumor formation. Gut microbiota and host chloride channels, both of which are regulated by dietary factors, are associated with CRC development."	
30135092		Thorax	Lower airway microbiota for 'biomarker' measurements of cystic fibrosis disease progression?		
36143881		"Medicina (Kaunas, Lithuania)"	Malassezia Folliculitis following Triple Therapy for Cystic Fibrosis.	"Triple-combination therapy with elexacaftor, tezacaftor and ivacaftor has been recently approved for cystic fibrosis patients with at least one F508 mutation in the transmembrane conductance regulator of the cystic fibrosis gene. Among the adverse events of elexacaftor, tezacaftor and ivacaftor, the cutaneous ones have been rarely reported, mainly dealing with urticarial-like rashes. On this topic, we report two cases of Malassezia folliculitis following triple therapy administration in two young females. In the first patient, a papulopustular rush appeared before the folliculitis while in the second patient it was not preceded by other skin manifestations. The diagnosis was confirmed both by dermoscopy and histology. The prompt response to systemic antimycotic drugs provided further evidence for the causative role of Malassezia, requiring no discontinuation of cystic fibrosis therapy. We could hypothesize that the triple regimen treatment may induce changes in the skin microbiome, potentially able to favor colonization and proliferation of Malassezia species. Physicians should be aware of such associations to allow prompt diagnosis and early interventions, avoiding useless drug removal."	
30311785		Future microbiology	The birth of viromics: an interview with Forest Rohwer.	"The editor of Future Microbiology, Alice Greenway, speaks to Forest Rohwer from San Diego State University (CA, USA) following his talk entitled 'Counting all the world's phage' at ASM Microbe 7-11 June 2018."	
34424248		Journal of visualized experiments : JoVE	Design and Development of a Model to Study the Effect of Supplemental Oxygen on the Cystic Fibrosis Airway Microbiome.	"Airway microbial communities are thought to play an important role in the progression of cystic fibrosis (CF) and other chronic pulmonary diseases. Microbes have traditionally been classified based on their ability to use or tolerate oxygen. Supplemental oxygen is a common medical therapy administered to people with cystic fibrosis (pwCF); however, existing studies on oxygen and the airway microbiome have focused on how hypoxia (low oxygen) rather than hyperoxia (high oxygen) affects the predominantly aerobic and facultative anaerobic lung microbial communities. To address this critical knowledge gap, this protocol was developed using an artificial sputum medium that mimics the composition of sputum from pwCF. The use of filter sterilization, which yields a transparent medium, allows optical methods to follow the growth of single-celled microbes in suspension cultures. To create hyperoxic conditions, this model system takes advantage of established anaerobic culturing techniques to study hyperoxic conditions; instead of removing oxygen, oxygen is added to cultures by daily sparging of serum bottles with a mixture of compressed oxygen and air. Sputum from 50 pwCF underwent daily sparging for a 72-h period to verify the ability of this model to maintain differential oxygen conditions. Shotgun metagenomic sequencing was performed on cultured and uncultured sputum samples from 11 pwCF to verify the ability of this medium to support the growth of commensal and pathogenic microbes commonly found in cystic fibrosis sputum. Growth curves were obtained from 112 isolates obtained from pwCF to verify the ability of this artificial sputum medium to support the growth of common cystic fibrosis pathogens. We find that this model can culture a wide variety of pathogens and commensals in CF sputum, recovers a community highly similar to uncultured sputum under normoxic conditions, and creates different culture phenotypes under varying oxygen conditions. This new approach might lead to a better understanding of unanticipated effects induced by the use of oxygen in pwCF on airway microbial communities and common respiratory pathogens."	
20629946		Letters in applied microbiology	Assessment of sample handling practices on microbial activity in sputum samples from patients with cystic fibrosis.	"The aim of this study was to quantitatively and qualitatively assess the effect of sample storage on the metabolically active microbial community found in sputum samples from patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). Sputum samples were collected and split in two equal aliquots one of which was immersed in RNAlater and refrigerated immediately, the second stored at room temperature for 24 h and RNAlater was subsequently added. mRNA was extracted, and RT-PCR-DGGE and qPCR analysis of the bacterial and fungal communities was carried out. Significant differences in the bacterial communities between the two protocols were observed but there were no significant difference seen in the fungal community analyses. Analysis by qPCR demonstrated that room temperature storage gave statistically significant increases in eubacteria and Pseudomonas spp. and a statistically significant decrease in those of Haemophilus influenzae. The analysis of metabolically active microbial communities from CF sputum using molecular techniques indicated that samples should be stored at 4 degrees C upon addition of RNAlater to obtain an accurate depiction of the CF lung microbiota. Also, storing respiratory samples at room temperature may cause an over representation of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and mask the presence of other clinically significant organisms."	
29031597		The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology	Lower airway microbiota and mycobiota in children with severe asthma.		
35972133		mSphere	Antibiotics Drive Expansion of Rare Pathogens in a Chronic Infection Microbiome Model.	"Chronic (long-lasting) infections are globally a major and rising cause of morbidity and mortality. Unlike typical acute infections, chronic infections are ecologically diverse, characterized by the presence of a polymicrobial mix of opportunistic pathogens and human-associated commensals. To address the challenge of chronic infection microbiomes, we focus on a particularly well-characterized disease, cystic fibrosis (CF), where polymicrobial lung infections persist for decades despite frequent exposure to antibiotics. Epidemiological analyses point to conflicting results on the benefits of antibiotic treatment yet are confounded by the dependency of antibiotic exposures on prior pathogen presence, limiting their ability to draw causal inferences on the relationships between antibiotic exposure and pathogen dynamics. To address this limitation, we develop a synthetic infection microbiome model representing CF metacommunity diversity and benchmark on clinical data. We show that in the absence of antibiotics, replicate microbiome structures in a synthetic sputum medium are highly repeatable and dominated by oral commensals. In contrast, challenge with physiologically relevant antibiotic doses leads to substantial community perturbation characterized by multiple alternate pathogen-dominant states and enrichment of drug-resistant species. These results provide evidence that antibiotics can drive the expansion (via competitive release) of previously rare opportunistic pathogens and offer a path toward microbiome-informed conditional treatment strategies.  We develop and clinically benchmark an experimental model of the cystic fibrosis (CF) lung infection microbiome to investigate the impacts of antibiotic exposures on chronic, polymicrobial infections. We show that a single experimental model defined by metacommunity data can partially recapitulate the diversity of individual microbiome states observed across a population of people with CF. In the absence of antibiotics, we see highly repeatable community structures, dominated by oral microbes. Under clinically relevant antibiotic exposures, we see diverse and frequently pathogen-dominated communities, and a nonevolutionary enrichment of antimicrobial resistance on the community scale, mediated by competitive release. The results highlight the potential importance of nonevolutionary (community-ecological) processes in driving the growing global crisis of increasing antibiotic resistance."	
32424080		Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Spatial mapping of polymicrobial communities reveals a precise biogeography associated with human dental caries.	"Tooth decay (dental caries) is a widespread human disease caused by microbial biofilms. , a biofilm-former, has been consistently associated with severe childhood caries; however, how this bacterium is spatially organized with other microorganisms in the oral cavity to promote disease remains unknown. Using intact biofilms formed on teeth of toddlers affected by caries, we discovered a unique 3D rotund-shaped architecture composed of multiple species precisely arranged in a corona-like structure with an inner core of  encompassed by outer layers of other bacteria. This architecture creates localized regions of acidic pH and acute enamel demineralization (caries) in a mixed-species biofilm model on human teeth, suggesting this highly ordered community as the causative agent. Notably, the construction of this architecture was found to be an active process initiated by production of an extracellular scaffold by  that assembles the corona cell arrangement, encapsulating the pathogen core. In addition, this spatial patterning creates a protective barrier against antimicrobials while increasing bacterial acid fitness associated with the disease-causing state. Our data reveal a precise biogeography in a polymicrobial community associated with human caries that can modulate the pathogen positioning and virulence potential in situ, indicating that micron-scale spatial structure of the microbiome may mediate the function and outcome of host-pathogen interactions."	
25139019		The Journal of infectious diseases	Dietary pectin-derived acidic oligosaccharides improve the pulmonary bacterial clearance of Pseudomonas aeruginosa lung infection in mice by modulating intestinal microbiota and immunity.	"A predominantly T-helper type 2 (Th2) immune response is critical in the prognosis of pulmonary Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection. But the mucosal and systemic immune responses can be influenced by the intestinal microbiota. We assessed the effect of microbiota compositional changes induced by a diet enriched in 5% acidic oligosaccharides derived from pectin (pAOS) on the immune response and outcome of chronic pulmonary P. aeruginosa infection in mice. pAOS promoted Th1 polarization by increasing interferon γ release, upregulating t-bet gene expression, decreasing interleukin 4 secretion, and downregulating gata3 gene expression. pAOS also sustained the release of keratinocyte chemoattractant, recruited polynuclear leukocytes and macrophages, stimulated M1 macrophage activation and interleukin 10 release, and decreased tumor necrosis factor α release in the lung. These effects led to increased bacterial clearance after the first and second P. aeruginosa infections. pAOS modified the intestinal microbiota by stimulating the growth of species involved in immunity development, such as Bifidobacterium species, Sutturella wadsworthia, and Clostridium cluster XIVa organisms, and at the same time increased the production of butyrate and propionate. These results suggest that pAOS may have beneficial effects by limiting the number and severity of pulmonary exacerbations in patients chronically infected with P. aeruginosa, such as individuals with cystic fibrosis."	
33961225		"Methods in molecular biology (Clifton, N.J.)"	Host Trait Prediction from High-Resolution Microbial Features.	Predicting host traits from metagenomes presents new challenges that can be difficult to overcome for researchers without a strong background in bioinformatics and/or statistics. Profiling bacterial communities using shotgun metagenomics often leads to the generation of a large amount of data that cannot be used directly for training a model. In this chapter we provide a detailed description of how to build a working machine learning model based on taxonomic and functional features of bacterial communities inhabiting the lungs of cystic fibrosis patients. Models are built in the R environment by using different freely available machine learning algorithms.	
29933382		PloS one	"Altered intestinal microbiota composition, antibiotic therapy and intestinal inflammation in children and adolescents with cystic fibrosis."	"The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of cystic fibrosis and antibiotic therapy on intestinal microbiota composition and intestinal inflammation in children and adolescents. A cross-sectional controlled study was conducted with 36 children and adolescents: 19 in the cystic fibrosis group (CFG) and 17 in the control group (CG) matched for age and sex. The CFG was subdivided based on the use of antibiotic therapy (CFAB group) and non-use of antibiotic therapy (CFnAB group). The following data were evaluated: colonization, antibiotic therapy, mutation, breastfeeding, use of infant formula, type of delivery, introduction of solid foods, body mass index, fecal calprotectin and intestinal microbiota composition (fluorescence in situ hybridization). Intestinal inflammation evaluated by fecal calprotectin was significantly higher in the CFG (median: 40.80 µg/g, IQR: 19.80-87.10, p = 0.040) and CFAB group (median: 62.95 µg/g, IQR: 21.80-136.62, p = 0.045) compared to the CG (median: 20.15 µg/g, IQR: 16.20-31.00), and the Bacteroides, Firmicutes, Eubacterium rectale and Faecalibacterium prausnitzii were significantly decreased (p < 0.05) in the CFG compared to the CG, whereas the bacteria Clostridium difficile, Escherichia coli and Pseudomonas aeruginosa were significantly increased in the CFG (p < 0.05). The main differences were found between the CG and CFAB group for Eubacterium rectale (p = 0.006), Bifidobacterium (p = 0.017), Escherichia coli (p = 0.030), Firmicutes (p = 0.002), Pseudomonas aeruginosa (p < 0.001) and Clostridium difficile (p = 0.006). The results of this study confirm intestinal inflammation in patients with CF, which may be related to changes in the composition of the intestinal microbiota."	
33856965		Annals of the American Thoracic Society	"{'i': 'Mycobacterium abscessus', '#text': 'Population Genomics of  from U.S. Cystic Fibrosis Care Centers.'}"	"is a significant threat to individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF) because of innate drug resistance and potential transmission between patients. Recent studies described global dominant circulating clones of , but detailed genomic surveys have not yet been described for the United States.  We examined the genetic diversity of respiratory  isolates from U.S. patients with CF and evaluated the potential for transmission events within CF Care Centers.  Whole-genome sequencing was performed on 558  isolates from 266 patients with CF attending 48 CF Care Centers in 28 U.S. states as part of a nationwide surveillance program. U.S. isolates were also compared with 64 isolate genomes from 13 previous studies to evaluate the prevalence of recently described dominant circulating clones.  More than half of study patients with CF and  had isolates within four dominant clones; two clones of  subspecies (subsp.)  (MAB) and two clones of  subsp.  (MMAS). Acquired drug resistance mutations for aminoglycosides and macrolides were rare in the isolate population, and they were not significantly enriched in dominant clones compared with unclustered isolates. For a subset of 55 patients, there was no relationship between dominant clones and diagnosis of active lung disease ( = 1.0). Twenty-nine clusters of genetically similar MAB isolates and eight clusters of genetically similar MMAS isolates were identified. Overall, 28 of 204 (14%) patients with MAB and 15 of 64 (23%) patients with MMAS had genetically isolates similar to those of at least one other patient at the same CF Care Center. Genetically similar isolates were also found between 60 of 204 (29%) patients with MAB and 19 of 64 (30%) patients with MMAS from different geographic locations.  Our study reveals the predominant genotypes of  and frequency of shared strains between patients in U.S. CF Care Centers. Integrated epidemiological and environmental studies would help to explain the widespread presence of dominant clones in the United States, including the potential for broad distribution in the environment. Single site studies using systematic, evidence-based approaches will be needed to establish the contributions of health care-associated transmission versus shared environmental exposures."	
37886890		Internal medicine journal	"Impact of cystic fibrosis multidisciplinary virtual clinics on patient experience, time commitments and costs."	"The experience of outpatient care may differ for select patient groups. This prospective study evaluates the adult patient experience of multidisciplinary outpatient cystic fibrosis (CF) care with videoconferencing through telehealth compared with face-to-face care the year prior. People with CF without a lung transplant were recruited. Patient-reported outcomes were obtained at commencement and 12 months into the study, reflecting both their face-to-face and telehealth through videoconferencing experience, respectively. Three patient cohorts were analysed: (i) participants with a regional residence, (ii) participants with a nonregional including metropolitan residence and (iii) participants with colonised multiresistant microbiota. Seventy-four patients were enrolled in the study (mean age, 37 ± 11 years; 50% male; mean forced expiratory volume in the first second of expiration, 60% [standard deviation, 23]) between February 2020 and May 2021. No differences between models were observed in the participants' rating of the health care team, general and mental health rating, and their confidence in handling treatment plans at home. No between-group differences in the Cystic Fibrosis Questionnaire - Revised (CFQ-R) were observed. Travel duration and the cost of attending a clinic was significantly reduced, particularly for the regional group (4 h, AU$108 per clinic; P < 0.05). A total of 93% respondents preferred to continue with a hybrid approach. In this pilot study, participants' experience of care and quality of life were no different with face-to-face and virtual care between the groups. Time and cost-savings, particularly for patients living in regional areas, were observed. Most participants preferred to continue with a hybrid model for outpatient care."	
34830048		International journal of molecular sciences	"{'i': 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa', '#text': 'Lung and Gut Microbiota Changes Associated with  Infection in Mouse Models of Cystic Fibrosis.'}"	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) disease leads to altered lung and gut microbiomes compared to healthy subjects. The magnitude of this dysbiosis is influenced by organ-specific microenvironmental conditions at different stages of the disease. However, how this gut-lung dysbiosis is influenced by  chronic infection is unclear. To test the relationship between CFTR dysfunction and gut-lung microbiome under chronic infection, we established a model of  infection in wild-type (WT) and gut-corrected CF mice. Using 16S ribosomal RNA gene, we compared lung, stool, and gut microbiota of C57Bl/6 TgN(FABP) or WT mice at the naïve state or infected with &nbsp; infection influences murine health significantly changing body weight both in CF and WT mice. Both stool and gut microbiota revealed significantly higher values of alpha diversity in WT mice than in CF mice, while lung microbiota showed similar values. Infection with  did not changed the diversity of the stool and gut microbiota, while a drop of diversity of the lung microbiota was observed compared to non-infected mice. However, the taxonomic composition of gut microbiota was shown to be influenced by  infection in CF mice but not in WT mice. This finding indicates that  chronic infection has a major impact on microbiota diversity and composition in the lung. In the gut, CFTR genotype and  infection affected the overall diversity and taxonomic microbiota composition, respectively. Overall, our results suggest a cross-talk between lung and gut microbiota in relation to  chronic infection and CFTR mutation."	
38179971		mBio	"{'i': 'Bacteroides', '#text': 'Intestinal  modulates inflammation, systemic cytokines, and microbial ecology via propionate in a mouse model of cystic fibrosis.'}"	"Persons with cystic fibrosis (CF), starting in early life, show intestinal microbiome dysbiosis characterized in part by a decreased relative abundance of the genus  is a major producer of the intestinal short chain fatty acid propionate. We demonstrate here that cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator-defective (CFTR-/-) Caco-2 intestinal epithelial cells are responsive to the anti-inflammatory effects of propionate. Furthermore,  isolates inhibit the IL-1β-induced inflammatory response of CFTR-/- Caco-2 intestinal epithelial cells and do so in a propionate-dependent manner. The introduction of supplemented stool from infants with cystic fibrosis into the gut of  mice results in higher propionate in the stool as well as the reduction in several systemic pro-inflammatory cytokines.  supplementation also reduced the fecal relative abundance of , indicating a potential interaction between these two microbes, consistent with previous clinical studies. For a  propionate mutant in the mouse model, pro-inflammatory cytokine KC is higher in the airway and serum compared with the wild-type (WT) strain, with no significant difference in the absolute abundance of these two strains. Taken together, our data indicate the potential multiple roles of -derived propionate in the modulation of systemic and airway inflammation and mediating the intestinal ecology of infants and children with CF. The roles of  and the propionate it produces may help explain the observed gut-lung axis in CF and could guide the development of probiotics to mitigate systemic and airway inflammation for persons with CF.IMPORTANCEThe composition of the gut microbiome in persons with CF is correlated with lung health outcomes, a phenomenon referred to as the gut-lung axis. Here, we demonstrate that the intestinal microbe  decreases inflammation through the production of the short-chain fatty acid propionate. Supplementing the levels of  in an animal model of CF is associated with reduced systemic inflammation and reduction in the relative abundance of the opportunistically pathogenic group / in the gut. Taken together, these data demonstrate a key role for  and microbially produced propionate in modulating inflammation, gut microbial ecology, and the gut-lung axis in cystic fibrosis. These data support the role of  as a potential probiotic in CF."	
24332997		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Iron supplementation does not worsen respiratory health or alter the sputum microbiome in cystic fibrosis.	"Iron supplementation for hypoferremic anemia could potentiate bacterial growth in the cystic fibrosis (CF) lung, but clinical trials testing this hypothesis are lacking. Twenty-two adults with CF and hypoferremic anemia participated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial of ferrous sulfate 325mg daily for 6weeks. Iron-related hematologic parameters, anthropometric data, sputum iron, Akron Pulmonary Exacerbation Score (PES), and the sputum microbiome were serially assessed. Fixed-effect models were used to describe how ferrous sulfate affected these variables. Ferrous sulfate increased serum iron by 22.3% and transferrin saturation (TSAT) by 26.8% from baseline (p<0.05) but did not affect hemoglobin, sputum iron, Akron PES, and the sputum microbiome. Low-dose ferrous sulfate improved hypoferremia without correcting anemia after 6weeks. We did not observe significant effects on sputum iron, Akron PES, and the sputum microbiome. Although we did not identify untoward health effects of iron supplementation, a larger blinded randomized controlled trial would be needed to fully demonstrate safety."	
37526960		"Microbiology (Reading, England)"	"{'i': 'Burkholderia multivorans', '#text': 'Identification of two distinct phylogenomic lineages and model strains for the understudied cystic fibrosis lung pathogen .'}"	"is the dominant  pathogen recovered from lung infection in people with cystic fibrosis. However, as an understudied pathogen there are knowledge gaps in relation to its population biology, phenotypic traits and useful model strains. A phylogenomic study of  was undertaken using a total of 283 genomes, of which 73 were sequenced and 49 phenotypically characterized as part of this study. Average nucleotide identity analysis (ANI) and phylogenetic alignment of core genes demonstrated that the  population separated into two distinct evolutionary clades, defined as lineage 1 (=58 genomes) and lineage 2 (=221 genomes). To examine the population biology of , a representative subgroup of 77  genomes (28 from the reference databases and the 49 novel short-read genome sequences) were selected based on multilocus sequence typing (MLST), isolation source and phylogenetic placement criteria. Comparative genomics was used to identify  lineage-specific genes -  in lineage 1 and  in lineage 2 - and diagnostic PCRs targeting them were successfully developed. Phenotypic analysis of 49 representative  strains showed considerable inter-strain variance, but the majority of the isolates tested were motile and capable of biofilm formation. A striking absence of  protease activity  was observed, but no lineage-specific phenotypic differences were demonstrated. Using phylogenomic and phenotypic criteria, three model  CF strains were identified, BCC0084 (lineage 1), BCC1272 (lineage 2a) and BCC0033 lineage 2b, and their complete genome sequences determined.  CF strains BCC0033 and BCC0084, and the environmental reference strain, ATCC 17616, were all capable of short-term survival within a murine lung infection model. By mapping the population biology, identifying lineage-specific PCRs and model strains, we provide much needed baseline resources for future studies of ."	
28077127		BMC medical ethics	Navigating social and ethical challenges of biobanking for human microbiome research.	"Biobanks are considered to be key infrastructures for research development and have generated a lot of debate about their ethical, legal and social implications (ELSI). While the focus has been on human genomic research, rapid advances in human microbiome research further complicate the debate. We draw on two cystic fibrosis biobanks in Toronto, Canada, to illustrate our points. The biobanks have been established to facilitate sample and data sharing for research into the link between disease progression and microbial dynamics in the lungs of pediatric and adult patients. We begin by providing an overview of some of the ELSI associated with human microbiome research, particularly on the implications for the broader society. We then discuss ethical considerations regarding the identifiability of samples biobanked for human microbiome research, and examine the issue of return of results and incidental findings. We argue that, for the purposes of research ethics oversight, human microbiome research samples should be treated with the same privacy considerations as human tissues samples. We also suggest that returning individual microbiome-related findings could provide a powerful clinical tool for care management, but highlight the need for a more grounded understanding of contextual factors that may be unique to human microbiome research. We revisit the ELSI of biobanking and consider the impact that human microbiome research might have. Our discussion focuses on identifiability of human microbiome research samples, and return of research results and incidental findings for clinical management."	
34232099		Microbiology spectrum	Mild Cystic Fibrosis Lung Disease Is Associated with Bacterial Community Stability.	"Microbial communities in the airways of persons with CF (pwCF) are variable, may include genera that are not typically associated with CF, and their composition can be difficult to correlate with long-term disease outcomes. Leveraging two large data sets characterizing sputum communities of 167 pwCF and associated metadata, we identified five bacterial community types. These communities explain 24% of the variability in lung function in this cohort, far more than single factors like Simpson diversity, which explains only 4%. Subjects with Pseudomonas-dominated communities tended to be older and have reduced percent predicted FEV (ppFEV) compared to subjects with Streptococcus-dominated communities, consistent with previous findings. To assess the predictive power of these five communities in a longitudinal setting, we used random forests to classify 346 additional samples from 24 subjects observed 8 years on average in a range of clinical states. Subjects with mild disease were more likely to be observed at baseline, that is, not in the context of a pulmonary exacerbation, and community structure in these subjects was more self-similar over time, as measured by Bray-Curtis distance. Interestingly, we found that subjects with mild disease were more likely to remain in a mixed Pseudomonas community, providing some support for the climax-attack model of the CF airway. In contrast, patients with worse outcomes were more likely to show shifts among community types. Our results suggest that bacterial community instability may be a risk factor for lung function decline and indicates the need to understand factors that drive shifts in community composition.  While much research supports a polymicrobial view of the CF airway, one in which the community is seen as the pathogenic unit, only controlled experiments using model bacterial communities can unravel the mechanistic role played by different communities. This report uses a large data set to identify a small number of communities as a starting point in the development of tractable model systems. We describe a set of five communities that explain 24% of the variability in lung function in our data set, far more than single factors like Simpson diversity, which explained only 4%. In addition, we report that patients with severe disease experienced more shifts among community types, suggesting that bacterial community instability may be a risk factor for lung function decline. Together, these findings provide a proof of principle for selecting bacterial community model systems."	
37052589		Microbial genomics	"{'i': 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa', '#text': 'Single nucleotide variants in  populations from sputum correlate with baseline lung function and predict disease progression in individuals with cystic fibrosis.'}"	"The severity and progression of lung disease are highly variable across individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF) and are imperfectly predicted by mutations in the human gene CFTR, lung microbiome variation or other clinical factors. The opportunistic pathogen  () dominates airway infections in most CF adults. Here we hypothesized that within-host genetic variation of  populations would be associated with lung disease severity. To quantify  genetic variation within CF sputum samples, we used deep amplicon sequencing (AmpliSeq) of 209  genes previously associated with pathogenesis or adaptation to the CF lung. We trained machine learning models using  single nucleotide variants (SNVs), microbiome diversity data and clinical factors to classify lung disease severity at the time of sputum sampling, and to predict lung function decline after 5 years in a cohort of 54 adult CF patients with chronic  infection. Models using  SNVs alone classified lung disease severity with good sensitivity and specificity (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve: AUROC=0.87). Models were less predictive of lung function decline after 5 years (AUROC=0.74) but still significantly better than random. The addition of clinical data, but not sputum microbiome diversity data, yielded only modest improvements in classifying baseline lung function (AUROC=0.92) and predicting lung function decline (AUROC=0.79), suggesting that  AmpliSeq data account for most of the predictive value. Our work provides a proof of principle that  genetic variation in sputum tracks lung disease severity, moderately predicts lung function decline and could serve as a disease biomarker among CF patients with chronic  infections."	
28758937		International journal of molecular sciences	A Different Microbiome Gene Repertoire in the Airways of Cystic Fibrosis Patients with Severe Lung Disease.	"In recent years, next-generation sequencing (NGS) was employed to decipher the structure and composition of the microbiota of the airways in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. However, little is still known about the overall gene functions harbored by the resident microbial populations and which specific genes are associated with various stages of CF lung disease. In the present study, we aimed to identify the microbial gene repertoire of CF microbiota in twelve patients with severe and normal/mild lung disease by performing sputum shotgun metagenome sequencing. The abundance of metabolic pathways encoded by microbes inhabiting CF airways was reconstructed from the metagenome. We identified a set of metabolic pathways differently distributed in patients with different pulmonary function; namely, pathways related to bacterial chemotaxis and flagellar assembly, as well as genes encoding efflux-mediated antibiotic resistance mechanisms and virulence-related genes. The results indicated that the microbiome of CF patients with low pulmonary function is enriched in virulence-related genes and in genes encoding efflux-mediated antibiotic resistance mechanisms. Overall, the microbiome of severely affected adults with CF seems to encode different mechanisms for the facilitation of microbial colonization and persistence in the lung, consistent with the characteristics of multidrug-resistant microbial communities that are commonly observed in patients with severe lung disease."	
29146609		The European respiratory journal	"Inflammation, age and changing microbiology: the search for causation in the cystic fibrosis airways."		
30212959		Medicine	Testing the neutral theory of biodiversity with the microbiome dataset from cystic fibrosis patients.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a hereditary disease that is characterized by defective mucociliary clearance, airway obstruction, chronic infection, and persistent inflammation. Cystic fibrosis pulmonary exacerbation (CFPE) majorly causes the morbidity of CF patients. Although CF has been demonstrated to change the composition of lung microbial community, previous studies have not made efforts to study the differences in the mechanism of assembly and diversity maintenance of lung microbial community in CF patients. In this study, we applied the neutral theory of biodiversity to comparatively investigate the assembly and diversity maintenance of the lung microbial community before and after the antibiotic treatment by reanalyzing the dataset from Fodor et al's study. We found that no one sample in the lung microbial communities of the sputum samples of Exacerbation group, nor those of End-of-treatment group satisfied the predictions of neutral model, suggesting that the neutral-process does not dominate in CF patients before and after antibiotic treatments. By comparing the biodiversity parameter between Exacerbation and End-of-treatment group, we found that the former had the significantly higher biodiversity, but the change in diversity parameter is slight and the P value is close to.05 (P value = .41). Therefore, our second finding is that although CFPE may increase the biodiversity of lung microbial community, the change is not essential."	
23802823		Annals of the American Thoracic Society	What to expect when you're expectorating: cystic fibrosis exacerbations and microbiota.		
35999634		Respiratory research	The respiratory microbiota alpha-diversity in chronic lung diseases: first systematic review and meta-analysis.	"While there seems to be a consensus that a decrease in gut microbiome diversity is related to a decline in health status, the associations between respiratory microbiome diversity and chronic lung disease remain a matter of debate. We provide a systematic review and meta-analysis of studies examining lung microbiota alpha-diversity in patients with asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), cystic fibrosis (CF) or bronchiectasis (NCFB), in which a control group based on disease status or healthy subjects is provided for comparison. We reviewed 351 articles on title and abstract, of which 27 met our inclusion criteria for systematic review. Data from 24 of these studies were used in the meta-analysis. We observed a trend that CF patients have a less diverse respiratory microbiota than healthy individuals. However, substantial heterogeneity was present and detailed using random-effects models, which limits the comparison between studies. Knowledge on respiratory microbiota is under construction, and for the moment, it seems that alpha-diversity measurements are not enough documented to fully understand the link between microbiota and health, excepted in CF context which represents the most studied chronic respiratory disease with consistent published data to link alpha-diversity and lung function. Whether differences in respiratory microbiota profiles have an impact on chronic respiratory disease symptoms and/or evolution deserves further exploration."	
31455639		mSystems	A Metabolome- and Metagenome-Wide Association Network Reveals Microbial Natural Products and Microbial Biotransformation Products from the Human Microbiota.	"The human microbiome consists of thousands of different microbial species, and tens of thousands of bioactive small molecules are associated with them. These associated molecules include the biosynthetic products of microbiota and the products of microbial transformation of host molecules, dietary components, and pharmaceuticals. The existing methods for characterization of these small molecules are currently time consuming and expensive, and they are limited to the cultivable bacteria. Here, we propose a method for detecting microbiota-associated small molecules based on the patterns of cooccurrence of molecular and microbial features across multiple microbiomes. We further map each molecule to the clade in a phylogenetic tree that is responsible for its production/transformation. We applied our proposed method to the tandem mass spectrometry and metagenomics data sets collected by the American Gut Project and to microbiome isolates from cystic fibrosis patients and discovered the genes in the human microbiome responsible for the production of corynomycolenic acid, which serves as a ligand for human T cells and induces a specific immune response against infection. Moreover, our method correctly associated pseudomonas quinolone signals, tyrvalin, and phevalin with their known biosynthetic gene clusters. Experimental advances have enabled the acquisition of tandem mass spectrometry and metagenomics sequencing data from tens of thousands of environmental/host-oriented microbial communities. Each of these communities contains hundreds of microbial features (corresponding to microbial species) and thousands of molecular features (corresponding to microbial natural products). However, with the current technology, it is very difficult to identify the microbial species responsible for the production/biotransformation of each molecular feature. Here, we develop association networks, a new approach for identifying the microbial producer/biotransformer of natural products through cooccurrence analysis of metagenomics and mass spectrometry data collected on multiple microbiomes."	
36585317		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	"Prevalence, Risk Factors, and Sequelae of Asymptomatic Clostridioides difficile Colonization in Children with Cystic Fibrosis."	"Patients with CF (pwCF) have high antibiotic use and an altered intestinal microbiome, known risk factors for infection with Clostridioides difficile. However, in adults with CF, C. difficile infection (CDI) is uncommon and asymptomatic colonization with C. difficile occurs frequently, for reasons that remain unclear. We investigated the rate, risk factors, and sequelae of asymptomatic C. difficile colonization in children with CF (cwCF). We identified that 32% of cwCF were colonized with C. difficile without acute gastrointestinal symptoms. Higher BMI and exposure to specific antibiotic classes (cephalosporins, fluoroquinolones, and vancomycin) were significantly associated with C. difficile colonization. No children developed symptomatic CDI in 90-days following enrollment."	
37686878		Nutrients	"{'i': 'Lactobacillaceae', '#text': 'Effect of  Probiotics on Colonic Microbiota and Metabolite Production in Cystic Fibrosis: A Comparative In Vitro Study.'}"	"Cystic Fibrosis-related gut dysbiosis (CFRGD) has become a recognised complication in children with this condition, and current evidence remains insufficient to guide the selection of probiotic strains for supplementation treatments. The aim of this study was to characterise the effect of three probiotic strains on CFRGD by means of a dynamic in vitro simulation of the colonic fermentation (SHIME). The configuration of the system included three bioreactors colonised with the faecal inoculum of a child with cystic fibrosis. For 20 days, each bioreactor was supplied daily with either  (ATCC 53103 TM),  (DSM 17938) or  (DSM 22266). The baseline microbiota was characterised by a high abundance of ,  and  genera. After 20 days of supplementation,  and  reduced  significantly, and the three strains led to increased  and  and decreased , with some of these changes being maintained 10 days after ceasing supplementation. The metabolic activity remained unaltered in terms of short-chain fatty acids, but branched-chain fatty acids showed a significant decrease, especially with . Additionally, ammonia decreased at 20 days of supplementation, and lactate continuously increased with the three strains. The effects on colonic microbiota of ,  or  were established, including increased beneficial bacteria, such as , and beneficial metabolites such as lactate; and on the other hand, a reduction in pathogenic genera, including  or  and branched-chain fatty acids, overall supported their use as probiotics in the context of CFRGD."	
26930426		American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine	Alterations of the Nasopharyngeal Microbiota in Infants with Cystic Fibrosis. Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane Conductance Regulator and Antibiotic Effects.		
36971560		Microbiology spectrum	Effects of Lumacaftor-Ivacaftor on Airway Microbiota-Mycobiota and Inflammation in Patients with Cystic Fibrosis Appear To Be Linked to Pseudomonas aeruginosa Chronic Colonization.	"Lumacaftor-ivacaftor is a cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) modulator combination approved for patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) who are homozygous for the F508del allele. This treatment showed significant clinical improvement; however, few studies have addressed the evolution of the airway microbiota-mycobiota and inflammation in patients receiving lumacaftor-ivacaftor treatment. Seventy-five patients with CF aged 12 years or older were enrolled at the initiation of lumacaftor-ivacaftor therapy. Among them, 41 had spontaneously produced sputa collected before and 6 months after treatment initiation. Airway microbiota and mycobiota analyses were performed via high-throughput sequencing. Airway inflammation was assessed by measuring the calprotectin levels in sputum; the microbial biomass was evaluated via quantitative PCR (qPCR). At baseline ( = 75), bacterial alpha-diversity was correlated with pulmonary function. After 6 months of lumacaftor-ivacaftor treatment, a significant improvement in the body mass index and a decreased number of intravenous antibiotic courses were noted. No significant changes in bacterial and fungal alpha- and beta-diversities, pathogen abundances, or calprotectin levels were observed. However, for patients not chronically colonized with Pseudomonas aeruginosa at treatment initiation, calprotectin levels were lower, and a significant increase in bacterial alpha-diversity was observed at 6 months. This study shows that the evolution of the airway microbiota-mycobiota in CF patients depends on the patient's characteristics at lumacaftor-ivacaftor treatment initiation, notably chronic colonization with P. aeruginosa.  The management of cystic fibrosis has been transformed recently by the advent of CFTR modulators, including lumacaftor-ivacaftor. However, the effects of such therapies on the airway ecosystem, particularly on the microbiota-mycobiota and local inflammation, which are involved in the evolution of pulmonary damage, are unclear. This multicenter study of the evolution of the microbiota under protein therapy supports the notion that CFTR modulators should be started as soon as possible, ideally before the patient is chronically colonized with P. aeruginosa. (This study has been registered at ClinicalTrials.gov under identifier NCT03565692)."	
26595741		Annals of the American Thoracic Society	Clinical Insights into Pulmonary Exacerbations in Cystic Fibrosis from the Microbiome. What Are We Missing?	"Pulmonary exacerbations account for much of the decrease in lung function and consequently most of the morbidity and mortality in patients with cystic fibrosis. These events are driven by an acute inflammatory response to infection. Recent technological advancements in molecular profiling techniques have allowed for a proliferation of microbiome studies of the lower airways of patients with cystic fibrosis. But these methods may not provide a comprehensive and unbiased measure of the lung microbiota in these patients and molecular profiles do not always translate to quantitative microbiology. Furthermore, these studies have not yet been able to provide much in the way of mechanistic insights into exacerbations or to guide patient therapy. We propose a model in which pulmonary exacerbations may be driven by an active subpopulation of the lung microbiota, which may represent only a small portion of the microbiota measured in a clinical sample. Methodology should be focused on the ultimate goal, which is to use the best available approaches to provide accurate quantitative measures of the microbiome to inform clinical decisions and provide rapid assessment of treatment efficacy. These strategies would be relevant to other chronic lung diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and neutrophilic asthma."	
34670648	microbial genomics	Emerging infectious diseases	"Population Genomics and Inference of Mycobacterium avium Complex Clusters in Cystic Fibrosis Care Centers, United States."	"Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) species constitute most mycobacteria infections in persons with cystic fibrosis (CF) in the United States, but little is known about their genomic diversity or transmission. During 2016-2020, we performed whole-genome sequencing on 364 MAC isolates from 186 persons with CF from 42 cystic fibrosis care centers (CFCCs) across 23 states. We compared isolate genomes to identify instances of shared strains between persons with CF. Among persons with multiple isolates sequenced, 15/56 (27%) had >1 MAC strain type. Genomic comparisons revealed 18 clusters of highly similar isolates; 8 of these clusters had patients who shared CFCCs, which included 27/186 (15%) persons with CF. We provide genomic evidence of highly similar MAC strains shared among patients at the same CFCCs. Polyclonal infections and high genetic similarity between MAC isolates are consistent with multiple modes of acquisition for persons with CF to acquire MAC infections."	
31961914		PLoS pathogens	CFTR dysregulation drives active selection of the gut microbiome.	"Patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) have altered fecal microbiomes compared to those of healthy controls. The magnitude of this dysbiosis correlates with measures of CF gastrointestinal (GI) disease, including GI inflammation and nutrient malabsorption. However, whether this dysbiosis is caused by mutations in the CFTR gene, the underlying defect in CF, or whether CF-associated dysbiosis augments GI disease was not clear. To test the relationships between CFTR dysfunction, microbes, and intestinal health, we established a germ-free (GF) CF mouse model and demonstrated that CFTR gene mutations are sufficient to alter the GI microbiome. Furthermore, flow cytometric analysis demonstrated that colonized CF mice have increased mesenteric lymph node and spleen TH17+ cells compared with non-CF mice, suggesting that CFTR defects alter adaptive immune responses. Our findings demonstrate that CFTR mutations modulate both the host adaptive immune response and the intestinal microbiome."	
30826285		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Early respiratory viral infections in infants with cystic fibrosis.	"Viral infections contribute to morbidity in cystic fibrosis (CF), but the impact of respiratory viruses on the development of airway disease is poorly understood. Infants with CF identified by newborn screening were enrolled prior to 4 months of age to participate in a prospective observational study at 4 centers. Clinical data were collected at clinic visits and weekly phone calls. Multiplex PCR assays were performed on nasopharyngeal swabs to detect respiratory viruses during routine visits and when symptomatic. Participants underwent bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) and a subset underwent pulmonary function testing. We present findings through 8.5 months of life. Seventy infants were enrolled, mean age 3.1 ± 0.8 months. Rhinovirus was the most prevalent virus (66%), followed by parainfluenza (19%), and coronavirus (16%). Participants had a median of 1.5 viral positive swabs (range 0-10). Past viral infection was associated with elevated neutrophil concentrations and bacterial isolates in BAL fluid, including recovery of classic CF bacterial pathogens. When antibiotics were prescribed for respiratory-related indications, viruses were identified in 52% of those instances. Early viral infections were associated with greater neutrophilic inflammation and bacterial pathogens. Early viral infections appear to contribute to initiation of lower airway inflammation in infants with CF. Antibiotics were commonly prescribed in the setting of a viral infection. Future investigations examining longitudinal relationships between viral infections, airway microbiome, and antibiotic use will allow us to elucidate the interplay between these factors in young children with CF."	
37823640		mSystems	Defining microbial community functions in chronic human infection with metatranscriptomics.	"The microbial diversity in polymicrobial infections (PMIs) allows for community members to establish interactions with one another, which can result in enhanced disease outcomes such as increased antibiotic tolerance and chronicity. Chronic PMIs result in large burdens on health systems, as they affect a significant proportion of the population and are expensive and difficult to treat. However, investigations into physiology of microbial communities in actual human infection sites are lacking. Here, we highlight that the predominant functions in chronic PMIs differ, and anaerobes, often described as bystanders, may be significant in the progression of chronic infections. Determining the community structure and functions in PMIs is a critical step toward understanding the molecular mechanisms that increase the virulence potential of the microbial community in these environments."	
34557293		F1000Research	"{'i': 'in vitro', '#text': 'An  model for the cultivation of polymicrobial biofilms under continuous-flow conditions.'}"	"The airways of people with cystic fibrosis (CF) are often chronically colonised with a diverse array of bacterial and fungal species. However, little is known about the relative partitioning of species between the planktonic and biofilm modes of growth in the airways. Existing  and  models of CF airway infection are ill-suited for the long-term recapitulation of mixed microbial communities. Here we describe a simple,  continuous-flow model for the cultivation of polymicrobial biofilms and planktonic cultures on different substrata. Our data provide evidence for inter-species antagonism and synergism in biofilm ecology. We further show that the type of substratum on which the biofilms grow has a profound influence on their species composition. This happens without any major alteration in the composition of the surrounding steady-state planktonic community. Our experimentally-tractable model enables the systematic study of planktonic and biofilm communities under conditions that are nutritionally reminiscent of the CF airway microenvironment, something not possible using any existing  models of CF airway infection."	
27925782		Annals of the American Thoracic Society	"Changes in the Cystic Fibrosis Airway Microbiome after Lung Transplant: The More Things Change, the More They Stay the Same."		
33390317		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Changes in fecal microbiota with CFTR modulator therapy: A pilot study.	"Studies have demonstrated that people with CF with pancreatic insufficiency (PI) have fecal dysbioses. Evidence suggests the causes of these dysbioses are multifactorial, and that important drivers include antibiotic exposure, dietary intake, and CF gastrointestinal tract dysfunction, including nutrient malabsorption. In this pilot study, we tested whether initiation of the CFTR modulator treatments ivacaftor (in a cohort of pancreatic sufficient (PS) people with CF and an R117H CFTR variant) or lumacaftor/ivacaftor (in a cohort of PI people with CF and an F508del variant) changed fecal measures of malabsorption or fecal microbiomes. While we identified no statistically significant fecal changes with either treatment, we detected trends in the PI cohort when initiating lumacaftor/ivacaftor towards decreased fecal fat content and towards fecal microbiomes that more closely resembled the fecal microbiota of people without PI. While these findings support a model in which nutrient malabsorption resulting from CF-induced PI drives fecal dysbiosis, they must be validated in future, larger studies of fecal microbiome and malabsorption outcomes with highly effective CFTR modulator therapies."	
36289287		Communications biology	Cftr deletion in mouse epithelial and immune cells differentially influence the intestinal microbiota.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a life-threatening genetic disorder, caused by mutations in the CF transmembrane-conductance regulator gene (cftr) that encodes CFTR, a cAMP-activated chloride and bicarbonate channel. Clinically, CF lung disease dominates the adult patient population. However, its gastrointestinal illness claims the early morbidity and mortality, manifesting as intestinal dysbiosis, inflammation and obstruction. As CF is widely accepted as a disease of epithelial dysfunction, it is unknown whether CFTR loss-of-function in immune cells contributes to these clinical outcomes. Using cftr genetic knockout and bone marrow transplantation mouse models, we performed 16S rRNA gene sequencing of the intestinal microbes. Here we show that cftr deletion in both epithelial and immune cells collectively influence the intestinal microbiota. However, the immune defect is a major factor determining the dysbiosis in the small intestine, while the epithelial defect largely influences that in the large intestine. This finding revises the current concept by suggesting that CF epithelial defect and immune defect play differential roles in CF intestinal disease."	
37205374		bioRxiv : the preprint server for biology	Persistent delay in maturation of the developing gut microbiota in infants with cystic fibrosis.	"The healthy human infant gut microbiome undergoes stereotypical changes in taxonomic composition between birth and maturation to an adult-like stable state. During this time, extensive communication between microbiota and the host immune system contributes to health status later in life. Although there are many reported associations between microbiota compositional alterations and disease in adults, less is known about how microbiome development is altered in pediatric diseases. One pediatric disease linked to altered gut microbiota composition is cystic fibrosis (CF), a multi-organ genetic disease involving impaired chloride secretion across epithelia and heightened inflammation both in the gut and at other body sites. Here, we use shotgun metagenomics to profile the strain-level composition and developmental dynamics of the infant fecal microbiota from several CF and non-CF longitudinal cohorts spanning from birth to greater than 36 months of life. We identify a set of keystone species whose prevalence and abundance reproducibly define microbiota development in early life in non-CF infants, but are missing or decreased in relative abundance in infants with CF. The consequences of these CF-specific differences in gut microbiota composition and dynamics are a delayed pattern of microbiota maturation, persistent entrenchment in a transitional developmental phase, and subsequent failure to attain an adult-like stable microbiota. We also detect the increased relative abundance of oral-derived bacteria and higher levels of fungi in CF, features that are associated with decreased gut bacterial density in inflammatory bowel diseases. Our results define key differences in the gut microbiota during ontogeny in CF and suggest the potential for directed therapies to overcome developmental delays in microbiota maturation."	
35442228		Journal of pediatric gastroenterology and nutrition	Changes in Glucose Breath Test in Cystic Fibrosis Patients Treated With 1 Month of Lumacaftor/Ivacaftor.	"Alteration of the airway microbiota is a hallmark of cystic fibrosis (CF) pulmonary disease. Dysfunction of cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator (CFTR) in the intestine also promotes changes in local microbiota such as small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO), which is common in CF. We evaluated whether therapy with the CFTR modulator combination lumacaftor/ivacaftor (luma/iva) has a beneficial impact on SIBO as measured by breath testing (BT). A multicenter longitudinal study of CFTR-dependent disease profiling (NCT02477319) included a prospective evaluation for SIBO by BT. Tidal breath samples were collected after fasting and 15, 30, 45, 60, 90, and 120 minutes after ingestion of glucose, before and 1 month after subjects initiated luma + iva. Forty-two subjects enrolled in the sub-study (mean age = 23.3 years; 51% female; 9.5% Latinx); 38 completed a hydrogen BT at both time points, of which 73.7% had a positive BT before luma/iva (baseline) and 65.8% had a positive test after luma/iva ( P = 0.44); shifts from negative to positive were also seen. Use of azithromycin (63.1%) and inhaled antibiotics (60.5%) were not associated with positive BT. Acid-blocking medications were taken by 73% of those with a negative BT at baseline and by 35% with a positive baseline BT ( P = 0.04). We found a high rate of positive hydrogen breath tests in individuals with CF, confirming that SIBO is common. One month of luma/iva did not significantly change the proportion of those with positive breath hydrogen measurements."	
26330184		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Faecal proteomics: A tool to investigate dysbiosis and inflammation in patients with cystic fibrosis.	"Several microbial studies reported gut microbiota dysbiosis in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). The functional consequences of this phenomenon are poorly understood. Faecal metaproteomics allows the quantitative analysis of host and microbial proteins to address functional changes resulting from this dysbiosis. We analysed faecal protein extracts from fifteen patients with CF that have pancreatic insufficiency and from their unaffected siblings by shotgun proteomics. Novel computational and statistical tools were introduced to evaluate changes in taxonomic composition and protein abundance. Faecal protein extracts from patients with CF were dominated by host proteins involved in inflammation and mucus formation. Taxonomic analysis of the microbial proteins confirmed the strong reduction of butyrate reducers such as Faecalibacterium prausnitzii and increase of Enterobacteriaceae, Ruminococcus gnavus and Clostridia species. Faecal metaproteomics provides insights in intestinal dysbiosis, inflammation in patients with CF and can be used to monitor different disease markers in parallel."	
26754178		Scientific reports	"Streptomycin treatment alters the intestinal microbiome, pulmonary T cell profile and airway hyperresponsiveness in a cystic fibrosis mouse model."	"Cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator deficient mouse models develop phenotypes of relevance to clinical cystic fibrosis (CF) including airway hyperresponsiveness, small intestinal bacterial overgrowth and an altered intestinal microbiome. As dysbiosis of the intestinal microbiota has been recognized as an important contributor to many systemic diseases, herein we investigated whether altering the intestinal microbiome of BALB/c Cftr(tm1UNC) mice and wild-type littermates, through treatment with the antibiotic streptomycin, affects the CF lung, intestinal and bone disease. We demonstrate that streptomycin treatment reduced the intestinal bacterial overgrowth in Cftr(tm1UNC) mice and altered the intestinal microbiome similarly in Cftr(tm1UNC) and wild-type mice, principally by affecting Lactobacillus levels. Airway hyperresponsiveness of Cftr(tm1UNC) mice was ameliorated with streptomycin, and correlated with Lactobacillus abundance in the intestine. Additionally, streptomycin treated Cftr(tm1UNC) and wild-type mice displayed an increased percentage of pulmonary and mesenteric lymph node Th17, CD8 + IL-17+ and CD8 + IFNγ+ lymphocytes, while the CF-specific increase in respiratory IL-17 producing γδ T cells was decreased in streptomycin treated Cftr(tm1UNC) mice. Bone disease and intestinal phenotypes were not affected by streptomycin treatment. The airway hyperresponsiveness and lymphocyte profile of BALB/c Cftr(tm1UNC) mice were affected by streptomycin treatment, revealing a potential intestinal microbiome influence on lung response in BALB/c Cftr(tm1UNC) mice."	
27279194		Nature	The man who can map the chemicals all over your body.		
33849523		Respiratory research	Longitudinal analysis of sinus microbiota post endoscopic surgery in patients with cystic fibrosis and chronic rhinosinusitis: a pilot study.	"Cystic fibrosis is a debilitating, autosomal recessive disease which results in chronic upper and lower airway infection and inflammation. In this study, four adult patients presenting with cystic fibrosis and chronic rhinosinusitis were recruited. Culture and molecular techniques were employed to evaluate changes in microbial profiles, host gene expression and antimicrobial resistance (AMR) in the upper respiratory tract over time. Swab samples from the sinonasal cavity were collected at the time of surgery and at follow-up clinics at regular time intervals for up to 18 months. Nucleic acids were extracted, and DNA amplicon sequencing was applied to describe bacterial and fungal composition. In parallel, RNA was used to evaluate the expression of 17 AMR genes and two inflammatory markers (interleukins 6 and 8) using custom qPCR array cards. Molecular results were compared with routine sinus and sputum culture reports within each patient. Bacterial amplicon sequencing and swab culture reports from the sinonasal cavity were mostly congruent and relatively stable for each patient across time. The predominant species detected in patients P02 and P04 were Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Staphylococcus aureus in patient P03, and a mixture of Enterobacter and S. aureus in patient P01. Fungal profiles were variable and less subject specific than bacterial communities. Increased expressions of interleukins 6 and 8 were observed in all patients throughout the sampling period compared with other measured genes. The most prevalent AMR gene detected was ampC. However, the prevalence of AMR gene expression was low in all patient samples across varying time-points. We observed a surprising degree of stability of sinonasal microbial composition, and inflammatory and AMR gene expression across all patients post sinus surgery."	
24927234		American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine	Clinical mechanism of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator potentiator ivacaftor in G551D-mediated cystic fibrosis.	"Ivacaftor is a cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) potentiator recently approved for patients with CF age 6 and older with the G551D mutation. To evaluate ivacaftor in a postapproval setting and determine mechanism of action and response of clinically relevant markers. We conducted a longitudinal cohort study in 2012-2013 in G551D CF patients age 6 and older with no prior exposure to ivacaftor. Study assessments were performed at baseline, 1, 3, and 6 months after ivacaftor initiation. Substudies evaluated mucociliary clearance, β-adrenergic sweat secretion rate, gastrointestinal pH, and sputum inflammation and microbiology Measurements and Main Results: A total of 151 of 153 subjects were prescribed ivacaftor and 88% completed the study through 6 months. FEV1 % predicted improved from baseline to 6 months (mean absolute change, 6.7%; P < 0.001). Similarly, body mass index improved from baseline to 6 months (mean change, 0.8 kg/m(2); P < 0.001). Sweat chloride decreased from baseline to 6 months (mean change, -53.8 mmol/L; 95% confidence interval, -57.7 to -49.9; P < 0.001), reflecting augmented CFTR function. There was significant improvement in hospitalization rate (P < 0.001) and Pseudomonas aeruginosa burden (P < 0.01). Significant improvements in mucociliary clearance (P < 0.001), gastrointestinal pH (P = 0.001), and microbiome were also observed, providing clinical mechanisms underlying the therapeutic benefit of ivacaftor. Significant clinical and physiologic improvements were observed on initiation of ivacaftor in a broad patient population, including reduced infection with P. aeruginosa. Biomarker studies substantially improve the understanding of the mechanistic consequences of CFTR modulation on pulmonary and gastrointestinal physiology."	
32631930		Thorax	Maintenance tobramycin primarily affects untargeted bacteria in the CF sputum microbiome.	"The most common antibiotic used to treat people with cystic fibrosis (PWCF) is inhaled tobramycin, administered as maintenance therapy for chronic  lung infections. While the effects of inhaled tobramycin on  abundance and lung function diminish with continued therapy, this maintenance treatment is known to improve long-term outcomes, underscoring how little is known about why antibiotics work in CF infections, what their effects are on complex CF sputum microbiomes and how to improve these treatments. To rigorously define the effect of maintenance tobramycin on CF sputum microbiome characteristics. We collected sputum from 30 PWCF at standardised times before, during and after a single month-long course of maintenance inhaled tobramycin. We used traditional culture, quantitative PCR and metagenomic sequencing to define the dynamic effects of this treatment on sputum microbiomes, including abundance changes in both clinically targeted and untargeted bacteria, as well as functional gene categories. CF sputum microbiota changed most markedly by 1 week of antibiotic therapy and plateaued thereafter, and this shift was largely driven by changes in non-dominant taxa. The genetically conferred functional capacities (ie, metagenomes) of subjects' sputum communities changed little with antibiotic perturbation, despite taxonomic shifts, suggesting functional redundancy within the CF sputum microbiome. Maintenance treatment with inhaled tobramycin, an antibiotic with demonstrated long-term mortality benefit, primarily impacted clinically untargeted bacteria in CF sputum, highlighting the importance of monitoring the non-canonical effects of antibiotics and other treatments to accurately define and improve their clinical impact."	
35801603		Polski merkuriusz lekarski : organ Polskiego Towarzystwa Lekarskiego	Importance of antimicrobial factors for microbiocenosis and local immunity of the oral cavity in children with mucoviscidosis.	"The involvement of commensals and opportunistic pathogens and the role of protective mechanisms in the development of dental diseases in children with cystic fibrosis require more detailed study. The aim of the study was to determine the ecological characteristics of the oral microbiota and some antimicrobial factors of saliva in children with mucoviscidosis. The study involved an assessment of oral microbiota as complex ecological system that protects the human body from colonization by pathogenic flora in children with cystic fibrosis. Bacteriological studies have been performed on clinical material from 30 children with mucoviscidosis diagnosed with dental and periodontal diseases. In the microbiological study of plaque microbiota, 70 strains of opportunistic pathogens were isolated in patients with mucoviscidosis. The most significant were alpha-hemolytic Streptococci (40%). The proportion of bacteria of Neisseria genus in patients with cystic fibrosis was lower and amounted to 24.3%. C. albicans fungi were isolated in comparable values (18.5%), S. aureus (8.5%), as well as gram-negative strains of E. aerogenes (4.3%) and E. coli (4.3%) significantly dominated. The results indicate that opportunistic pathogens S. aureus, E. aerogenes and E. coli partially replaced the representatives of the normal oral microbiota alpha-hemolytic streptococci and non-pathogenic species of Neisseria genus in patients with mucoviscidosis. Microbiota of plaque in children with mucoviscidosis is characterized by an expansion of the spectrum of opportunistic pathogens due to Staphylococcus aureus, enterobacteria and C. albicans fungi, which indicates a violation of the microbiocenosis due to reduced mucosal immunity. Mucosal immunity of the oral cavity in children with mucoviscidosis is characterized by a 1.5-fold decrease in lysozyme activity and the level of secretory IgA in the saliva of children."	
30116405		Disease markers	Serum Level of D-Lactate in Patients with Cystic Fibrosis: Preliminary Data.	"D-Lactate is produced by the intestinal biota and later absorbed into circulation. Some patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) develop exocrine pancreatic insufficiency that may disturb the gut microbiome and enhance the production of D-lactate. However, this concept has not been studied yet. The aim of the study was to assess D-lactate concentration in relation to the occurrence of clinical features, activity of CF, and diet composition in paediatric patients. . Serum concentrations of D-lactate were measured in 38 CF patients (19 girls and 19 boys) from 6 months to 18 years of age. The analysis included age, sex, clinical symptoms, diet (the variety and calorie needs), the laboratory tests for pancreatic efficiency (serum levels of albumin and glucose, faecal elastase activity, and faecal fat index) and faecal calprotectin (the marker of intestinal inflammation), and parameters of liver damage and of cholestasis (the activity of aminotransferases, -glutamyltransferase, level of bilirubin, and international normalized ratio). . The median level of D-lactate was 0.86 g/ml (1Q-3Q: 0.48-2.03) and correlated with the CF severity in the Schwachman-Kulczycki score, parameters of pancreatic insufficiency, and the presence of intestinal inflammation. An increased level of D-lactate was observed in the subgroup with pancreas insufficiency (1.05 versus 0.73;  < 0.05), parallel with an elevated level of calprotectin (0.948 versus 0.755;  = 0.08). There was no relationship between energy consumption and diet composition and serum D-lactates. . Serum D-lactate concentration in CF patients is a promising new marker of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency probably related to intestinal flora dysbiosis/overgrowth."	
34021052		Journal of investigative medicine : the official publication of the American Federation for Clinical Research	Importance of beta-lactam pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics on the recovery of microbial diversity in the airway of persons with cystic fibrosis.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a chronic lung disease characterized by acute pulmonary exacerbations (PExs) that are frequently treated with antibiotics. The impact of antibiotics on airway microbial diversity remains a critical knowledge gap. We sought to define the association between beta-lactam pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic target attainment on richness and alpha diversity. Twenty-seven children <18 years of age with CF participated in the prospective study. Airway samples were collected at hospital admission for PEx, end of antibiotic treatment (Tr), and >1 month in follow-up (FU). Metagenomic sequencing was performed to determine richness, alpha diversity, and the presence of antibiotic resistance genes. Free plasma beta-lactam levels were measured, and PK modeling was performed to determine time above the minimum inhibitory concentration (T>MIC). 52% of study subjects had sufficient T>MIC for optimal bacterial killing. There were no significant differences in demographics or PEx characteristics, except for F508del homozygosity. No significant differences were noted in richness or alpha diversity at individual time points, and both groups experienced a decrease in richness and alpha diversity at Tr compared with PEx. However, alpha diversity remained decreased at FU compared with PEx in those with sufficient T>MIC but increased in those with insufficient T>MIC (Shannon -0.222 vs +0.452, p=0.031, and inverse Simpson -1.376 vs +1.388, p=0.032). Fluoroquinolone resistance was also more frequently detected in those with insufficient T>MIC (log2 fold change (log2FC) 2.29, p=0.025). These findings suggest sufficient beta-lactam T>MIC is associated with suppressed recovery of alpha diversity following the antibiotic exposure period."	
33468311		Clinical radiology	Ultra-low-dose thoracic CT with model-based iterative reconstruction (MBIR) in cystic fibrosis patients undergoing treatment with cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulators (CFTR).	"To assess the utility of a volumetric low-dose computed tomography (CT) thorax (LDCTT) protocol at a dose equivalent to a posteroanterior (PA) and lateral chest radiograph for surveillance of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. A prospective study was undertaken of 19 adult patients with CF that proceeded to LDCTT at 12 and 24 months following initiation of ivacaftor. A previously validated seven-section, low-dose axial CT protocol was used for the 12-month study. A volumetric LDCTT protocol was developed for the 24-month study and reconstructed with hybrid iterative reconstruction (LD-ASIR) and pure iterative reconstruction (model-based IR [LD-MBIR]). Radiation dose was recorded for each scan. Image quality was assessed quantitatively and qualitatively, and disease severity was assessed using a modified Bhalla score. Statistical analysis was performed and p-values of <0.05 were considered statistically significant. Volumetric LD-MBIR studies were acquired at a lower radiation dose than the seven-section studies (0.08 ± 0.01 versus 0.10 ± 0.02 mSv; p=0.02). LD-MBIR and seven-section ASIR images had significantly lower levels of image noise compared with LD-ASIR images (p<0.0001). Diagnostic acceptability scores and depiction of bronchovascular structures were found to be acceptable for axial and coronal LD-MBIR images. LD-MBIR images were superior to LD-ASIR images for all qualitative parameters assessed (p<0.0001). No significant change was observed in mean Bhalla score between 1-year and 2-year studies (p=0.84). The use of a volumetric LDCTT protocol (reconstructed with pure IR) enabled acquisition of diagnostic quality CT images, which were considered extremely useful for surveillance of CF patients, at a dose equivalent to a PA and lateral chest radiograph."	
35597889		The ISME journal	Complex and unexpected outcomes of antibiotic therapy against a polymicrobial infection.	"Antibiotics are our primary approach to treating complex infections, yet we have a poor understanding of how these drugs affect microbial communities. To better understand antimicrobial effects on host-associated microbial communities we treated cultured sputum microbiomes from people with cystic fibrosis (pwCF, n = 24) with 11 different antibiotics, supported by theoretical and mathematical modeling-based predictions in a mucus-plugged bronchiole microcosm. Treatment outcomes we identified in vitro that were predicted in silico were: 1) community death, 2) community resistance, 3) pathogen killing, and 4) fermenter killing. However, two outcomes that were not predicted when antibiotics were applied were 5) community profile shifts with little change in total bacterial load (TBL), and 6) increases in TBL. The latter outcome was observed in 17.8% of samples with a TBL increase of greater than 20% and 6.8% of samples with an increase greater than 40%, demonstrating significant increases in community carrying capacity in the presence of an antibiotic. An iteration of the mathematical model showed that TBL increase was due to antibiotic-mediated release of pH-dependent inhibition of pathogens by anaerobe fermentation. These dynamics were verified in vitro when killing of fermenters resulted in a higher community carrying capacity compared to a no antibiotic control. Metagenomic sequencing of sputum samples during antibiotic therapy revealed similar dynamics in clinical samples. This study shows that the complex microbial ecology dictates the outcomes of antibiotic therapy against a polymicrobial infection."	
33139284		Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy	Liquid Chromatography Mass Spectrometry Detection of Antibiotic Agents in Sputum from Persons with Cystic Fibrosis.	"Antibiotic therapy is expected to impact host microbial communities considerably, yet many studies focused on microbiome and health are often confounded by limited information about antibiotic exposure. Given that antibiotics have diverse pharmacokinetic and antimicrobial properties, investigating the type and concentration of these agents in specific host specimens would provide much needed insight into their impact on the microbes therein. Here, we developed liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC-MS) methods to detect 18 antibiotic agents in sputum from persons with cystic fibrosis. Antibiotic spike-in control samples were used to compare three liquid extraction methods on the Waters Acquity Quattro Premier XE. Extraction with dithiothreitol captured the most antibiotics and was used to detect antibiotics in sputum samples from 11 people with cystic fibrosis, with results being compared to the individuals' self-reported antibiotic use. For the sputum samples, two LC-MS assays were used; the Quattro Premier detected nanomolar or micromolar concentrations of 16 antibiotics, whereas the Xevo TQ-XS detected all 18 antibiotics, most at subnanomolar levels. In 45% of tested sputum samples (71/158), at least one antibiotic that was not reported by the subject was detected by both LC-MS methods, a discordance largely explained by the thrice weekly administration and long half-life of azithromycin. For ∼37% of samples, antibiotics reported as taken by the individual were not detected by either instrument. Our results provide an approach for detecting a variety of antibiotics at the site of infection, thereby providing a means to include antibiotic usage data into microbiome studies."	
27093603		PloS one	Culture-Independent Identification of Nontuberculous Mycobacteria in Cystic Fibrosis Respiratory Samples.	"Respiratory tract infections with nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) are increasing in prevalence and are a significant cause of lung function decline in individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF). NTM have been detected in culture-independent analyses of CF airway microbiota at lower rates than would be expected based on published prevalence data, likely due to poor lysing of the NTM cell wall during DNA extraction. We compared a standard bacterial lysis protocol with a modified method by measuring NTM DNA extraction by qPCR and NTM detection with bacterial 16S rRNA gene sequencing. The modified method improved NTM DNA recovery from spiked CF sputum samples by a mean of 0.53 log10 copies/mL for M. abscessus complex and by a mean of 0.43 log10 copies/mL for M. avium complex as measured by qPCR targeting the atpE gene. The modified method also improved DNA sequence based NTM detection in NTM culture-positive CF sputum and bronchoalveolar lavage samples; however, both qPCR and 16S rRNA gene sequencing remained less sensitive than culture for NTM detection. We highlight the limitations of culture-independent identification of NTM from CF respiratory samples, and illustrate how alterations in the bacterial lysis and DNA extraction process can be employed to improve NTM detection with both qPCR and 16S rRNA gene sequencing."	
31492943		Scientific reports	In vitro evolution of Pseudomonas aeruginosa AA2 biofilms in the presence of cystic fibrosis lung microbiome members.	"In cystic fibrosis (CF) airways, the opportunistic pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa evolves from an acute to a chronic infection phenotype. Yet, the in vivo factors influencing the evolutionary trajectory of P. aeruginosa are poorly understood. This study aimed at understanding the role of the CF lung microbiome in P. aeruginosa evolution. Therefore, we investigated the in vitro biofilm evolution of an early CF P. aeruginosa isolate, AA2, in the presence or absence of a synthetic CF lung microbiome. Whole genome sequencing of evolved populations revealed mutations in quorum sensing (QS) genes (lasR, pqsR) with and without the microbiome. Phenotypic assays confirmed decreased production of the QS molecule 3-O-C-homoserine lactone, and QS-regulated virulence factors pyocyanin and protease. Furthermore, a mixture of lasR and lasR pqsR mutants was found, in which double mutants showed less pyocyanin and protease production than lasR mutants. While the microbial community did not influence the production of the tested P. aeruginosa virulence factors, we observed a trend towards more mutations in the transcriptional regulators gntR and mexL when P. aeruginosa was grown alone. P. aeruginosa developed resistance to β-lactam antibiotics during evolution, when grown with and without the microbiome. In conclusion, in an experimental biofilm environment, the early P. aeruginosa CF isolate AA2 evolves towards a CF-like genotype and phenotype, and most studied evolutionary adaptations are not impacted by CF microbiome members."	
26408040		Journal of medical microbiology	Antibiotic susceptibility and molecular mechanisms of macrolide resistance in streptococci isolated from adult cystic fibrosis patients.	"The cystic fibrosis (CF) airways are colonized by polymicrobial communities with high bacterial load and are influenced by frequent antibiotic exposures. This community includes diverse streptococci, some of which have been directly or indirectly associated with pulmonary exacerbations. As many streptococci are naturally competent, horizontal transfer of antibiotic-resistant determinants coupled with frequent and/or chronic antibiotic exposure may contribute to high resistance rates. In this study, we assessed antibiotic resistance in 413 streptococcal isolates from adult CF patients against nine antibiotics relevant in CF treatment. We observed very low rates of cephalosporin resistance [cefepime and ceftriaxone ( < 2%)], and higher rates of resistance to tetracycline (∼34%) and sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim (∼45%). The highest rate of antibiotic resistance was to the macrolides [azithromycin (56.4%) and erythromycin (51.6%)]. We also investigated the molecular mechanisms of macrolide resistance and found that only half of our macrolide-resistant streptococci isolates contained the mef (efflux pump) or erm (methylation of 23S ribosomal target site) genes. The majority of isolates were, however, found to have point mutations at position 2058 or 2059 of the 23S ribosomal subunit - a molecular mechanism of resistance not commonly reported in the non-pyogenic and non-pneumococcal streptococci, and unique in comparison with previous studies. The high rates of resistance observed here may result in poor outcomes where specific streptococci are contributing to CF airway disease and serve as a reservoir of resistance genes within the CF airway microbiome."	
29128317		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Lack of efficacy of Lactobacillus GG in reducing pulmonary exacerbations and hospital admissions in children with cystic fibrosis: A randomised placebo controlled trial.	"Intestinal dysbiosis has been described in Cystic Fibrosis (CF) and probiotics have been proposed to restore microbial composition. Aim of the study was to investigate the effects of Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG (LGG) on clinical outcomes in children with cystic fibrosis (CF). A multicentre, randomised double-blind, clinical trial was conducted in children with CF. After 6months of baseline assessment, enrolled children (2 to 16years of age) received Lactobacillus GG (6×10CFU/day) or placebo for 12months. Primary outcomes were proportion of subjects with at least one pulmonary exacerbation and hospitalisation over 12months. Secondary endpoints were total number of exacerbations and hospitalisations, pulmonary function, and nutritional status. Ninety-five patients were enrolled (51/95 female; median age of 103±50months). In a multivariate GEE logistic analysis, the odds of experiencing at least one exacerbation was not significantly different between the two groups, also after adjusting for the presence of different microbial organisms and for the number of pulmonary exacerbations within 6months before randomisation (OR 0.83; 95% CI 0.38 to 1.82, p=0.643). Similarly, LGG supplementation did not significantly affect the odds of hospitalisations (OR 1.67; 95% CI 0.75 to 3.72, p=0.211). No significant difference was found for body mass index and FEV1. LGG supplementation had no effect on respiratory and nutritional outcomes in this large study population of children with CF under stringent randomised clinical trial conditions. Whether earlier interventions, larger doses, or different strains of probiotics may be effective is unknown."	
38702073		BMJ open respiratory research	"{'i': 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa', '#text': 'Considerations for the use of inhaled antibiotics for  in people with cystic fibrosis receiving CFTR modulator therapy.'}"	"The major cause of mortality in people with cystic fibrosis (pwCF) is progressive lung disease characterised by acute and chronic infections, the accumulation of mucus, airway inflammation, structural damage and pulmonary exacerbations. The prevalence of  rises rapidly in the teenage years, and this organism is the most common cause of chronic lung infection in adults with cystic fibrosis (CF). It is associated with an accelerated decline in lung function and premature death. New  infections are treated with antibiotics to eradicate the organism, while chronic infections require long-term inhaled antibiotic therapy. The prevalence of  infections has decreased in CF registries since the introduction of CF transmembrane conductance regulator modulators (CFTRm), but clinical observations suggest that chronic  infections usually persist in patients receiving CFTRm. This indicates that pwCF may still need inhaled antibiotics in the CFTRm era to maintain long-term control of  infections. Here, we provide an overview of the changing perceptions of  infection management, including considerations on detection and treatment, the therapy burden associated with inhaled antibiotics and the potential effects of CFTRm on the lung microbiome. We conclude that updated guidance is required on the diagnosis and management of  infection. In particular, we highlight a need for prospective studies to evaluate the consequences of stopping inhaled antibiotic therapy in pwCF who have chronic  infection and are receiving CFTRm. This will help inform new guidelines on the use of antibiotics alongside CFTRm."	
34112603		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Microbial interaction: Prevotella spp. reduce P. aeruginosa induced inflammation in cystic fibrosis bronchial epithelial cells.	"In Cystic Fibrosis (CF) airways, the dehydrated, thick mucus promotes the establishment of persistent polymicrobial infections and drives chronic airways inflammation. This also predisposes the airways to further infections, the vicious, self-perpetuating cycle causing lung damage and progressive lung function decline. The airways are a poly-microbial environment, containing both aerobic and anaerobic bacterial species. Pseudomonas aeruginosa (P. aeruginosa) infections contribute to the excessive inflammatory response in CF, but the role of anaerobic Prevotella spp., frequently found in CF airways, is not known. We assessed innate immune signalling in CF airway epithelial cells in response to clinical strains of P. histicola, P. nigresens and P. aeruginosa. CFBE41o- cells were infected with P. aeruginosa (MOI 100, 2h) followed by infection with P. histicola or P. nigrescens (MOI 100, 2h). Cells were incubated under anaerobic conditions for the duration of the experiments. Our study shows that P. histicola and P. nigresens can reduce the growth of P. aeruginosa and dampen the inflammatory response in airway epithelial cells. We specifically illustrate that the presence of the investigated Prevotella spp. reduces Toll-like-receptor (TLR)-4, MAPK, NF-κB(p65) signalling and cytokine release (Interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8) in mixed infections. Our work, for the first time, strongly indicates a relationship between P. aeruginosa and anaerobic Prevotella spp.. The observed modified NF-κB and MAPK signalling indicates some mechanisms underlying this interaction that could offer a novel therapeutic approach to combat chronic P. aeruginosa infection in people with CF."	
25624972		The World Allergy Organization journal	The microbiome of the upper airways: focus on chronic rhinosinusitis.	"Upper airway diseases including allergic rhinitis, chronic rhinosinusitis with or without polyps, and cystic fibrosis are characterized by substantially different inflammatory profiles. Traditionally, studies on the association of specific bacterial patterns with inflammatory profiles of diseases had been dependent on bacterial culturing. In the past 30 years, molecular biology methods have allowed bacterial culture free studies of microbial communities, revealing microbiota much more diverse than previously recognized including those found in the upper airway. At presence, the study of the pathophysiology of upper airway diseases is necessary to establish the relationship between the microbiome and inflammatory patterns to find their clinical reflections and also their possible causal relationships. Such investigations may elucidate the path to therapeutic approaches in correcting an imbalanced microbiome. In the review we summarized techniques used and the current knowledge on the microbiome of upper airway diseases, the limitations and pitfalls, and identified areas of interest for further research."	
37343220		The Pediatric infectious disease journal	Bacteriophage Therapy of Multidrug-resistant Achromobacter in an 11-Year-old Boy With Cystic Fibrosis Assessed by Metagenome Analysis.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a genetic disease associated with lung disease characterized by chronic pulmonary infection, increasingly caused by multiple drug-resistant pathogens after repeated antibiotic exposure, limiting antibiotic treatment options. Bacteriophages can provide a pathogen-specific bactericidal treatment used with antibiotics to improve microbiologic and clinical outcomes in CF. Achromobacter species isolates from sputum of a chronically infected person with CF, were assessed for susceptibility to bacteriophages: 2 highly active, purified bacteriophages were administered intravenously every 8 hours, in conjunction with a 14-day piperacillin/tazobactam course for CF exacerbation. Sputum and blood were collected for metagenome analysis during treatment, with sputum analysis at 1-month follow-up. Assessments of clinical status, pulmonary status and laboratory evaluation for safety were conducted. Bacteriophage administration was well-tolerated, with no associated clinical or laboratory adverse events. Metagenome analysis documented an 86% decrease in the relative proportion of Achromobacter DNA sequence reads in sputum and a 92% decrease in blood, compared with other bacterial DNA reads, comparing pretreatment and posttreatment samples. Bacteriophage DNA reads were detected in sputum after intravenous administration during treatment, and at 1-month follow-up. Reversal of antibiotic resistance to multiple antibiotics occurred in some isolates during treatment. Stabilization of lung function was documented at 1-month follow-up. Bacteriophage/antibiotic treatment decreased the host pulmonary bacterial burden for Achromobacter assessed by metagenome analysis of sputum and blood, with ongoing bacteriophage replication documented in sputum at 1-month follow-up. Prospective controlled studies are needed to define the dose, route of administration and duration of bacteriophage therapy for both acute and chronic infection in CF."	
38448281		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Alterations in the fecal microbiota in patients with advanced cystic fibrosis liver disease after 6 months of elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor.	"Cystic fibrosis associated liver disease (CFLD) carries a significant disease burden with no effective preventive therapies. According to the gut-liver axis hypothesis for CFLD pathogenesis, dysbiosis and increased intestinal inflammation and permeability permit pathogenic bacterial translocation into the portal circulation, leading to hepatic inflammation and fibrosis. Evaluating the effect of CFTR (cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator) modulation with elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor (ETI) may help determine the role of CFTR in CFLD and increase understanding of CFLD pathogenesis, which is critical for developing therapies. We aimed to characterize the fecal microbiota in participants with CF with and without advanced CFLD (aCFLD) before and after ETI. This is an ancillary analysis of stool samples from participants ages ≥12 y/o enrolled in PROMISE (NCT04038047). Included participants had aCFLD (cirrhosis with or without portal hypertension, or non-cirrhotic portal hypertension) or CF without liver disease (CFnoLD). Fecal microbiota were defined by shotgun metagenomic sequencing at baseline and 1 and 6 months post-ETI. We analyzed 93 samples from 34 participants (11 aCFLD and 23 CFnoLD). Compared to CFnoLD, aCFLD had significantly higher baseline relative abundances of potential pathogens Streptococcus salivarius and Veillonella parvula. Four of 11 aCFLD participants had an initially abnormal fecal calprotectin that normalized 6 months post-ETI, correlating with a significant decrease in S. salivarius and a trend towards decreasing V. parvula. These results support an association between dysbiosis and intestinal inflammation in CFLD with improvements in both post-ETI, lending further support to the gut-liver axis in aCFLD."	
20585638		PloS one	Airway microbiota and pathogen abundance in age-stratified cystic fibrosis patients.	"Bacterial communities in the airways of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients are, as in other ecological niches, influenced by autogenic and allogenic factors. However, our understanding of microbial colonization in younger versus older CF airways and the association with pulmonary function is rudimentary at best. Using a phylogenetic microarray, we examine the airway microbiota in age stratified CF patients ranging from neonates (9 months) to adults (72 years). From a cohort of clinically stable patients, we demonstrate that older CF patients who exhibit poorer pulmonary function possess more uneven, phylogenetically-clustered airway communities, compared to younger patients. Using longitudinal samples collected form a subset of these patients a pattern of initial bacterial community diversification was observed in younger patients compared with a progressive loss of diversity over time in older patients. We describe in detail the distinct bacterial community profiles associated with young and old CF patients with a particular focus on the differences between respective ""early"" and ""late"" colonizing organisms. Finally we assess the influence of Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane Regulator (CFTR) mutation on bacterial abundance and identify genotype-specific communities involving members of the Pseudomonadaceae, Xanthomonadaceae, Moraxellaceae and Enterobacteriaceae amongst others. Data presented here provides insights into the CF airway microbiota, including initial diversification events in younger patients and establishment of specialized communities of pathogens associated with poor pulmonary function in older patient populations."	
33481845		PloS one	Safety of research bronchoscopy with BAL in stable adult patients with cystic fibrosis.	"Data on adverse events from research bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) is lacking. As research bronchoscopy with BAL is useful for isolation of immune cells and investigation of CF lung microbiome, we sought to investigate the safety of bronchoscopy in adult patients with CF. Between November 2016 and September 2019, we performed research bronchoscopies on CF subjects (32) and control subjects (82). Control subjects were nonsmokers without respiratory disease. CF subjects had mild or moderate obstructive lung disease (FEV1 > 50% predicted) and no evidence of recent CF pulmonary exacerbation. There was no significant difference in the age or sex of each cohort. Neither group experienced life threatening adverse events. The number of adverse events was similar between CF and control subjects. The most common adverse events were sore throat and cough, which occurred at similar frequencies in control and CF subjects. Fever and headache occurred more frequently in CF subjects. However, the majority of fevers were seen in CF subjects with FEV1 values below 65% predicted. We found that CF subjects had similar adverse event profiles following research bronchoscopy compared to healthy subjects. While CF subjects had a higher rate of fevers, this adverse event occurred with greater frequency in CF subjects with lower FEV1. Our data demonstrate that research bronchoscopy with BAL is safe in CF subjects and that safety profile is improved if bronchoscopies are limited to subjects with an FEV1 > 65% predicted."	
22827300		Future microbiology	Microbial diversity in the cystic fibrosis airways: where is thy sting?		
25629612		PloS one	Comparison of microbiomes from different niches of upper and lower airways in children and adolescents with cystic fibrosis.	"Changes in the airway microbiome may be important in the pathophysiology of chronic lung disease in patients with cystic fibrosis. However, little is known about the microbiome in early cystic fibrosis lung disease and the relationship between the microbiomes from different niches in the upper and lower airways. Therefore, in this cross-sectional study, we examined the relationship between the microbiome in the upper (nose and throat) and lower (sputum) airways from children with cystic fibrosis using next generation sequencing. Our results demonstrate a significant difference in both α and β-diversity between the nose and the two other sampling sites. The nasal microbiome was characterized by a polymicrobial community while the throat and sputum communities were less diverse and dominated by a few operational taxonomic units. Moreover, sputum and throat microbiomes were closely related especially in patients with clinically stable lung disease. There was a high inter-individual variability in sputum samples primarily due to a decrease in evenness linked to increased abundance of potential respiratory pathogens such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Patients with chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection exhibited a less diverse sputum microbiome. A high concordance was found between pediatric and adult sputum microbiomes except that Burkholderia was only observed in the adult cohort. These results indicate that an adult-like lower airways microbiome is established early in life and that throat swabs may be a good surrogate in clinically stable children with cystic fibrosis without chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection in whom sputum sampling is often not feasible."	
27156045		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Episodic oral antibiotic use in CF: Discordance between the electronic medical record and self-report.	"Accurate accounting of antibiotic use is necessary for studies comparing the CF airway microbiota across clinically relevant disease states. While poor adherence to chronic therapies is well described for individuals with CF, use patterns of episodic oral antibiotics are less clear. Eleven individuals with CF completed daily questionnaires regarding antibiotic use for a mean of 458days. Self-report of episodic oral antibiotic use was compared to antibiotic prescription data in the electronic medical record (EMR). Self-reported use of episodic oral antibiotics differed from EMR data an average of 8.3% of days per subject. The majority of these discrepancies were due to self-reported use of oral antibiotics outside of the EMR-documented dates of antibiotic prescription. Discrepancies exist between self-reported use of episodic oral antibiotics and EMR data that have implications for studies of the CF airway microbiota."	
30701801		Terapevticheskii arkhiv	Functional insufficiency of the pancreas and the metabolic activity of the microbiota in cystic fibrosis adults patients.	"In order to optimize the therapy, the functional state of the pancreas (P) and the peculiarities of metabolic activity of intestinal microbiota in adults with cystic fibrosis (CF) were assessed. 14 CF patients (20-34 years, 7 men, 7 women) were enrolled. In 8 patients, the diagnosis was confirmed in the first year of life on the basis of clinical data, positive sweat test, 5 had genetic confirmation. In 4 patients, the diagnosis was confirmed at the age of 8-13 years and 2 patients aged 18, 27 years. In this group, genetic confirmation was in 4 subjects. In addition to general clinical studies, the level of C-peptide in blood, elastase and the concentration of short chain fatty acids in feces was determined. Of elastase feces in 9 patients was 5.5±4.7 icg/g, that is revealed severe exocrine insufficiency of the pancreas and in 5 patients the elastase level was normal and amounted to 402±124 icg/g. Deployed the clinical picture of diabetes mellitus was observed in 3 patients. Metabolic activity of the colon microflora as a whole was reduced, the sum of the concentration of short-chain fatty acids (ΣCn) was 6.03±4.11 mg/g at a rate of 10.61±5.11 (p&lt;0.05). At the same time, in some patients (group 1, n=9), who were at the time of the study on antibiotic therapy, the value of ΣCn was 3.32±0.33 mg/g, and in patients receiving probiotic drugs (group 2, n=5), the activity of microflora did not differ from the norm ((ΣCn=11.03±2.01 mg/g). The correlation dependence of the ratio of the total iso-acids fraction in patients with MV to the normal values and the level of fecal elastase (r= -0.46, p=0.049) was revealed. Most patients with CF (64%) diagnosed with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency severe according elastase stool. The activity of faecal elastase correlated with parameters of microbiocenosis, which indicates the necessity of correction is not only functional insufficiency of the pancreas, but also the state of the microbiota."	
23060053		Gut microbes	Cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator knockout mice exhibit aberrant gastrointestinal microbiota.	"The composition of the gastrointestinal microbiome is increasingly recognized as a crucial contributor to immune and metabolic homeostasis-deficiencies in which are characteristic of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. The murine model (CFTR (-/-) , CF), has, in previous studies, demonstrated characteristic CF gastrointestinal (GI) manifestations including slowed transit and significant upregulation of genes associated with inflammation. To determine if characteristics of the microbiome are associated with these phenotypes we used a phylogenetic microarray to compare small intestine bacterial communities of wild type and congenic CF mice. Loss of functional CFTR is associated with significant decreases in GI bacterial community richness, evenness and diversity and reduced relative abundance of putative protective species such as Acinetobacter lwoffii and a multitude of Lactobacilliales members. CF mice exhibited significant enrichment of Mycobacteria species and Bacteroides fragilis, previously associated with GI infection and immunomodulation. Antibiotic administration to WT and CF animals resulted in convergence of their microbiome composition and significant increases in community diversity in CF mice. These communities were characterized by enrichment of members of the Lactobacillaceae and Bifidobacteriaceae and reduced abundance of Enterobacteriaceae and Clostridiaceae. These data suggest that Enterobacteria and Clostridia species, long associated with small intestinal overgrowth and inflammatory bowel disease, may suppress both ileal bacterial diversity and the particular species which maintain motility and immune homeostasis in this niche. Thus, these data provide the first indications that GI bacterial colonization is strongly impacted by the loss of functional CFTR and opens up avenues for alternative therapeutic approaches to improve CF disease management."	
24637292		The American journal of pathology	Gastrointestinal pathology in juvenile and adult CFTR-knockout ferrets.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a multiorgan disease caused by loss of a functional cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) chloride channel in many epithelia of the body. Here we report the pathology observed in the gastrointestinal organs of juvenile to adult CFTR-knockout ferrets. CF gastrointestinal manifestations included gastric ulceration, intestinal bacterial overgrowth with villous atrophy, and rectal prolapse. Metagenomic phylogenetic analysis of fecal microbiota by deep sequencing revealed considerable genotype-independent microbial diversity between animals, with the majority of taxa overlapping between CF and non-CF pairs. CF hepatic manifestations were variable, but included steatosis, necrosis, biliary hyperplasia, and biliary fibrosis. Gallbladder cystic mucosal hyperplasia was commonly found in 67% of CF animals. The majority of CF animals (85%) had pancreatic abnormalities, including extensive fibrosis, loss of exocrine pancreas, and islet disorganization. Interestingly, 2 of 13 CF animals retained predominantly normal pancreatic histology (84% to 94%) at time of death. Fecal elastase-1 levels from these CF animals were similar to non-CF controls, whereas all other CF animals evaluated were pancreatic insufficient (<2 μg elastase-1 per gram of feces). These findings suggest that genetic factors likely influence the extent of exocrine pancreas disease in CF ferrets and have implications for the etiology of pancreatic sufficiency in CF patients. In summary, these studies demonstrate that the CF ferret model develops gastrointestinal pathology similar to CF patients."	
34208093		Microorganisms	"{'i': 'Prevotella melaninogenica', '#text': ', a Sentinel Species of Antibiotic Resistance in Cystic Fibrosis Respiratory Niche?'}"	"The importance and abundance of strict anaerobic bacteria in the respiratory microbiota of people with cystic fibrosis (PWCF) is now established through studies based on high-throughput sequencing or extended-culture methods. In CF respiratory niche, one of the most prevalent anaerobic genera is , and particularly the species  The objective of this study was to evaluate the antibiotic susceptibility of this anaerobic species. Fifty isolates of  cultured from sputum of 50 PWCF have been included. Antibiotic susceptibility testing was performed using the agar diffusion method. All isolates were susceptible to the following antibiotics: amoxicillin/clavulanic acid, piperacillin/tazobactam, imipenem and metronidazole. A total of 96% of the isolates (48/50) were resistant to amoxicillin (indicating beta-lactamase production), 34% to clindamycin (17/50) and 24% to moxifloxacin (12/50). Moreover, 10% (5/50) were multidrug-resistant. A significant and positive correlation was found between clindamycin resistance and chronic azithromycin administration. This preliminary study on a predominant species of the lung ""anaerobiome"" shows high percentages of resistance, potentially exacerbated by the initiation of long-term antibiotic therapy in PWCF. The anaerobic resistome characterization, focusing on species rather than genera, is needed in the future to better prevent the emergence of resistance within lung microbiota."	
28494786		Microbiome	Compositionally and functionally distinct sinus microbiota in chronic rhinosinusitis patients have immunological and clinically divergent consequences.	"Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) is a heterogeneous disease characterized by persistent sinonasal inflammation and sinus microbiome dysbiosis. The basis of this heterogeneity is poorly understood. We sought to address the hypothesis that a limited number of compositionally distinct pathogenic bacterial microbiota exist in CRS patients and invoke discrete immune responses and clinical phenotypes in CRS patients. Sinus brushings from patients with CRS (n = 59) and healthy individuals (n = 10) collected during endoscopic sinus surgery were analyzed using 16S rRNA gene sequencing, predicted metagenomics, and RNA profiling of the mucosal immune response. We show that CRS patients cluster into distinct sub-groups (DSI-III), each defined by specific pattern of bacterial co-colonization (permutational multivariate analysis of variance (PERMANOVA); p = 0.001, r  = 0.318). Each sub-group was typically dominated by a pathogenic family: Streptococcaceae (DSI), Pseudomonadaceae (DSII), Corynebacteriaceae [DSIII(a)], or Staphylococcaceae [DSIII(b)]. Each pathogenic microbiota was predicted to be functionally distinct (PERMANOVA; p = 0.005, r  = 0.217) and encode uniquely enriched gene pathways including ansamycin biosynthesis (DSI), tryptophan metabolism (DSII), two-component response [DSIII(b)], and the PPAR-γ signaling pathway [DSIII(a)]. Each is also associated with significantly distinct host immune responses; DSI, II, and III(b) invoked a variety of pro-inflammatory, T1 responses, while DSIII(a), which exhibited significantly increased incidence of nasal polyps (Fisher's exact; p = 0.034, relative risk = 2.16), primarily induced IL-5 expression (Kruskal Wallis; q = 0.045). A large proportion of CRS patient heterogeneity may be explained by the composition of their sinus bacterial microbiota and related host immune response-features which may inform strategies for tailored therapy in this patient population."	
23613805		PloS one	Cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) allelic variants relate to shifts in faecal microbiota of cystic fibrosis patients.	"In this study we investigated the effects of the Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane conductance Regulator (CFTR) gene variants on the composition of faecal microbiota, in patients affected by Cystic Fibrosis (CF). CFTR mutations (F508del is the most common) lead to a decreased secretion of chloride/water, and to mucus sticky secretions, in pancreas, respiratory and gastrointestinal tracts. Intestinal manifestations are underestimated in CF, leading to ileum meconium at birth, or small bowel bacterial overgrowth in adult age. Thirty-six CF patients, fasting and under no-antibiotic treatment, were CFTR genotyped on both alleles. Faecal samples were subjected to molecular microbial profiling through Temporal Temperature Gradient Electrophoresis and species-specific PCR. Ecological parameters and multivariate algorithms were employed to find out if CFTR variants could be related to the microbiota structure. Patients were classified by two different criteria: 1) presence/absence of F508del mutation; 2) disease severity in heterozygous and homozygous F508del patients. We found that homozygous-F508del and severe CF patients exhibited an enhanced dysbiotic faecal microbiota composition, even within the CF cohort itself, with higher biodiversity and evenness. We also found, by species-specific PCR, that potentially harmful species (Escherichia coli and Eubacterium biforme) were abundant in homozygous-F508del and severe CF patients, while beneficial species (Faecalibacterium prausnitzii, Bifidobacterium spp., and Eubacterium limosum) were reduced. This is the first report that establishes a link among CFTR variants and shifts in faecal microbiota, opening the way to studies that perceive CF as a 'systemic disease', linking the lung and the gut in a joined axis."	
37173154		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Eradication of Nontuberculous Mycobacteria in People with Cystic Fibrosis Treated with Elexacaftor/Tezacaftor/Ivacaftor: A Multicenter Cohort Study.	"The prevalence of nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) infections is rising in people with cystic fibrosis (pwCF). NTM infection, especially infection with Mycobacterium abscessus complex (MABC), is commonly associated with severe lung deterioration. The current treatment modalities, including multiple intravenous antibiotics, frequently fail to achieve airway eradication. Although treatment with elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor (ETI) has been shown to modulate the lung microbiome, data regarding its role in eradicating NTM in pwCF is lacking. Our aim was to evaluate the impact of ETI on the rate of NTM eradication in pwCF. This retrospective multicenter cohort study included pwCF from five CF centers in Israel. PwCF aged older than 6 who had at least one positive NTM airway culture in the past two years and were treated with ETI for at least one year were included. The annual NTM and bacterial isolations, pulmonary function tests, and body mass index were analyzed before and after ETI treatment. Fifteen pwCF were included (median age 20.9 years, 73.3% females, 80% pancreatic insufficient). In nine patients (66%) NTM isolations were eradicated following treatment with ETI. Seven of them had MABC. The median time between the first NTM isolation and treatment with ETI was 2.71 years (0.27-10.35 years). Eradication of NTM was associated with improved pulmonary function tests (p<0.05). For the first time, we report successful eradication of NTM, including MABC, following treatment with ETI in pwCF. Additional studies are needed to assess whether treatment with ETI can result in the long-term eradication of NTM."	
33767218		Scientific reports	An observational study of anaerobic bacteria in cystic fibrosis lung using culture dependant and independent approaches.	"Strict anaerobes are undeniably important residents of the cystic fibrosis (CF) lung but are still unknowns. The main objectives of this study were to describe anaerobic bacteria diversity in CF airway microbiota and to evaluate the association with lung function. An observational study was conducted during eight months. A hundred and one patients were enrolled in the study, and 150 sputum samples were collected using a sterile sample kit designed to preserve anaerobic conditions. An extended-culture approach on 112 sputa and a molecular approach (quantitative PCR targeting three of the main anaerobic genera in CF lung: Prevotella, Veillonella, and Fusobacterium) on 141 sputa were developed. On culture, 91.1% of sputa were positive for at least one anaerobic bacterial species, with an average of six anaerobic species detected per sputum. Thirty-one anaerobic genera and 69 species were found, which is the largest anaerobe diversity ever reported in CF lungs. Better lung function (defined as Forced Expiratory Volume in one second > 70%) was significantly associated with higher quantification of Veillonella. These results raise the question of the potential impact of anaerobes on lung function."	
30359203		Gut microbes	Opportunistic bacteria confer the ability to ferment prebiotic starch in the adult cystic fibrosis gut.	"Chronic disruption of the intestinal microbiota in adult cystic fibrosis (CF) patients is associated with local and systemic inflammation, and has been linked to the risk of serious comorbidities. Supplementation with high amylose maize starch (HAMS) might provide clinical benefit by promoting commensal bacteria and the biosynthesis of immunomodulatory metabolites. However, whether the disrupted CF gut microbiota has the capacity to utilise these substrates is not known. We combined metagenomic sequencing,  fermentation, amplicon sequencing, and metabolomics to define the characteristics of the faecal microbiota in adult CF patients and assess HAMS fermentation capacity. Compared to healthy controls, the faecal metagenome of adult CF patients had reduced bacterial diversity and prevalence of commensal fermentative clades.  fermentation models seeded with CF faecal slurries exhibited reduced acetate levels compared to healthy control reactions, but comparable levels of butyrate and propionate. While the commensal genus  was strongly associated with short chain fatty acid (SCFA) production by healthy microbiota, it was displaced in this role by  1 in the microbiota of CF patients. A subset of CF reactions exhibited enterococcal overgrowth, resulting in lactate accumulation and reduced SCFA biosynthesis. The addition of healthy microbiota to CF faecal slurries failed to displace predominant CF taxa, or substantially influence metabolite biosynthesis. Despite significant microbiota disruption, the adult CF gut microbiota retains the capacity to exploit HAMS. Our findings highlight the potential for taxa associated with the altered CF gut microbiotato mediate prebiotic effects in microbial systems subject to ongoing perturbation, irrespective of the depletion of common commensal clades."	
29624426		Breastfeeding medicine : the official journal of the Academy of Breastfeeding Medicine	Integrated Approaches to Analyze Big Data in the Perinatal/Neonatal Space.		
38092964		Pediatric research	Effect of beta-glucan supplementation on cystic fibrosis colonic microbiota: an in vitro study.	"Children with cystic fibrosis (CF) present with gut dysbiosis, and current evidence impedes robust recommendations on the use of prebiotics. This study aimed at establishing the prebiotic potential of a commercial beta-glucan on the in vitro colonic microbiota of a child with CF compared to a healthy counterpart (H). A dynamic simulator of colonic fermentation (twin-SHIME® model) was set up including the simulation of the proximal (PC) and distal colon (DC) of the CF and the H subjects by colonizing the bioreactors with faecal microbiota. During two weeks the system was supplied with the beta-glucan. At baseline, during treatment and post-treatment, microbiota composition was profiled by 16 S rRNA and short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) production was determined by GS-MS. At baseline, Faecalibacterium, was higher in CF' DC than in the H, along higher Acidaminococcus and less Megasphaera and Sutterella. Beta-glucan supplementation induced increased microbiota richness and diversity in both subjects during the treatment. At genus level, Pseudomonas and Veillonella decreased, while Akkermansia and Faecalibacterium increased significantly in CF. The supplementation with beta-glucan suggests positive results on CF colonic microbiota in the in vitro context, encouraging further research in the in vivo setting. Current evidence supports assessing the effect of prebiotics on modifying cystic fibrosis microbiota. The effect of beta-glucan supplementation was evaluated in a controlled dynamic in vitro colonic ecosystem. Beta-glucan supplement improved diversity in cystic fibrosis colonic microbiota. The treatment showed increased abundance of Faecalibacterium and Akkermansia in cystic fibrosis. New evidence supports the use of prebiotics in future clinical studies."	
38073491		Physiological genomics	Fecal dysbiosis and inflammation in intestinal-specific Cftr knockout mice on regimens preventing intestinal obstruction.	"Chronic intestinal inflammation is a poorly understood manifestation of cystic fibrosis (CF), which may be refractory to ion channel CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) modulator therapy. People with CF exhibit intestinal dysbiosis, which has the potential for stimulating intestinal and systemic inflammation. CFTR is expressed in organ epithelia, leukocytes, and other tissues. Here, we investigate the contribution of intestinal epithelium-specific loss of Cftr [iCftr knockout (KO)] to dysbiosis and inflammation in mice treated with either of two antiobstructive dietary regimens necessary to maintain CF mouse models [polyethylene glycol (PEG) laxative or a liquid diet (LiqD)]. Feces collected from iCftr KO mice and their wild-type (WT) sex-matched littermates were used to measure fecal calprotectin to evaluate inflammation and to perform 16S rRNA sequencing to characterize the gut microbiome. Fecal calprotectin was elevated in iCftr KO relative to WT mice that consumed either PEG or LiqD. PEG iCftr KO mice did not show a change in α diversity versus WT mice but demonstrated a significant difference in microbial composition (β diversity) with included increases in the phylum Proteobacteria, the family , four genera of  including , and the mucolytic genus . Fecal microbiome analysis of LiqD-fed iCftr KO mice showed both decreased α diversity and differences in microbial composition with increases in the Proteobacteria family , Firmicutes families  and , and enrichment of , , , mucolytic , and reduction of Akkermansia. It was concluded that epithelium-specific loss of Cftr is a major driver of CF intestinal dysbiosis and inflammation with significant similarities to previous studies of pan Cftr KO mice. Chronic intestinal inflammation is a manifestation of cystic fibrosis (CF), a disease caused by loss of the anion channel CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) that is expressed in many tissues. This study shows that intestinal epithelial cell-specific loss of CFTR [inducible Cftr knockout (KO)] in mice is sufficient to induce intestinal dysbiosis and inflammation. Experiments were performed on mice consuming two dietary regimens routinely used to prevent obstruction in CF mice."	
26162072		PloS one	"The Goblet Cell Protein Clca1 (Alias mClca3 or Gob-5) Is Not Required for Intestinal Mucus Synthesis, Structure and Barrier Function in Naive or DSS-Challenged Mice."	"The secreted, goblet cell-derived protein Clca1 (chloride channel regulator, calcium-activated-1) has been linked to diseases with mucus overproduction, including asthma and cystic fibrosis. In the intestine Clca1 is found in the mucus with an abundance and expression pattern similar to Muc2, the major structural mucus component. We hypothesized that Clca1 is required for the synthesis, structure or barrier function of intestinal mucus and therefore compared wild type and Clca1-deficient mice under naive and at various time points of DSS (dextran sodium sulfate)-challenged conditions. The mucus phenotype in Clca1-deficient compared to wild type mice was systematically characterized by assessment of the mucus protein composition using proteomics, immunofluorescence and expression analysis of selected mucin genes on mRNA level. Mucus barrier integrity was assessed in-vivo by analysis of bacterial penetration into the mucus and translocation into sentinel organs combined analysis of the fecal microbiota and ex-vivo by assessment of mucus penetrability using beads. All of these assays revealed no relevant differences between wild type and Clca1-deficient mice under steady state or DSS-challenged conditions in mouse colon. Clca1 is not required for mucus synthesis, structure and barrier function in the murine colon."	
29946004		The European respiratory journal	Anaerobic bacteria cultured from cystic fibrosis airways correlate to milder disease: a multisite study.	"Anaerobic and aerobic bacteria were quantitated in respiratory samples across three cystic fibrosis (CF) centres using extended culture methods. Subjects aged 1-69 years who were clinically stable provided sputum (n=200) or bronchoalveolar lavage (n=55). 18 anaerobic and 39 aerobic genera were cultured from 59% and 95% of samples, respectively; 16 out of 57 genera had a ≥5% prevalence across centres.Analyses of microbial communities using co-occurrence networks in sputum samples showed groupings of oral, including anaerobic, bacteria, whereas typical CF pathogens formed distinct entities.  was associated with worse nutrition and F508del genotype, whereas anaerobe prevalence was positively associated with pancreatic sufficiency, better nutrition and better lung function. A higher total anaerobe/total aerobe CFU ratio was associated with pancreatic sufficiency and better nutrition. Subjects grouped by factor analysis who had relative dominance of anaerobes over aerobes had milder disease compared with a -dominated group with similar proportions of subjects that were homozygous for F508del.In summary, anaerobic bacteria occurred at an early age. In sputum-producing subjects anaerobic bacteria were associated with milder disease, suggesting that targeted eradication of anaerobes may not be warranted in sputum-producing CF subjects."	
32350096		mSphere	Disruption of Cross-Feeding Inhibits Pathogen Growth in the Sputa of Patients with Cystic Fibrosis.	"A critical limitation in the management of chronic polymicrobial infections is the lack of correlation between antibiotic susceptibility testing (AST) and patient responses to therapy. Underlying this disconnect is our inability to accurately recapitulate the  environment and complex polymicrobial communities  However, emerging evidence suggests that, if modeled and tested accurately, interspecies relationships can be exploited by conventional antibiotics predicted to be ineffective by standard AST. As an example, under conditions where  relies on cocolonizing organisms for nutrients (i.e., cross-feeding), multidrug-resistant  may be indirectly targeted by inhibiting the growth of its metabolic partners. While this has been shown  using synthetic bacterial communities, the efficacy of a ""weakest-link"" approach to controlling host-associated polymicrobial infections has not yet been demonstrated. To test whether cross-feeding inhibition can be leveraged in clinically relevant contexts, we collected sputa from cystic fibrosis (CF) subjects and used enrichment culturing to isolate both  and anaerobic bacteria from each sample. Predictably, both subpopulations showed various antibiotic susceptibilities when grown independently. However, when  was cultured and treated under cooperative conditions in which it was dependent on anaerobic bacteria for nutrients, the growth of both the pathogen and the anaerobe was constrained despite their intrinsic antibiotic resistance profiles. These data demonstrate that the control of complex polymicrobial infections may be achieved by exploiting obligate or facultative interspecies relationships. Toward this end,  susceptibility testing should evolve to more accurately reflect  growth environments and microbial interactions found within them. Antibiotic efficacy achieved  correlates poorly with clinical outcomes after treatment of chronic polymicrobial diseases; if a pathogen demonstrates susceptibility to a given antibiotic in the lab, that compound is often ineffective when administered clinically. Conversely, if a pathogen is resistant , patient treatment with that same compound can elicit a positive response. This discordance suggests that the  growth environment impacts pathogen antibiotic susceptibility. Indeed, here we demonstrate that interspecies relationships among microbiotas in the sputa of cystic fibrosis patients can be targeted to indirectly inhibit the growth of  The therapeutic implication is that control of chronic lung infections may be achieved by exploiting obligate or facultative relationships among airway bacterial community members. This strategy is particularly relevant for pathogens harboring intrinsic multidrug resistance and is broadly applicable to chronic polymicrobial airway, wound, and intra-abdominal infections."	
34780275		Infection and immunity	Nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae Infection Impedes Pseudomonas aeruginosa Colonization and Persistence in Mouse Respiratory Tract.	"Patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) experience lifelong respiratory infections, which are a significant cause of morbidity and death. These infections are polymicrobial in nature, and the predominant bacterial species undergo a predictable series of changes as patients age. Young patients have populations dominated by opportunists that are typically found within the microbiome of the human nasopharynx, such as nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHi); these are eventually supplanted, and the population within the CF lung is later dominated by pathogens such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa. In this study, we investigated how initial colonization with NTHi impacts colonization and persistence of P. aeruginosa in the respiratory tract. Analysis of polymicrobial biofilms  by confocal microscopy revealed that NTHi promoted greater P. aeruginosa biofilm volume and diffusion. However, sequential respiratory infection of mice with NTHi followed by P. aeruginosa resulted in significantly lower levels of P. aeruginosa, compared to infection with P. aeruginosa alone. Coinfected mice also had reduced airway tissue damage and lower levels of inflammatory cytokines, compared with P. aeruginosa-infected mice. Similar results were observed after instillation of heat-inactivated NTHi bacteria or purified NTHi lipooligosaccharide endotoxin prior to P. aeruginosa introduction. Based on these results, we conclude that NTHi significantly reduces susceptibility to subsequent P. aeruginosa infection, most likely due to priming of host innate immunity rather than a direct competitive interaction between species. These findings have potential significance with regard to therapeutic management of early-life infections in patients with CF."	
38169295		Journal of bacteriology	"{'i': 'in vitro', '#text': 'An  medium for modeling gut dysbiosis associated with cystic fibrosis.'}"	"The gut physiology of pediatric and adult persons with cystic fibrosis (pwCF) is altered relative to healthy persons. The CF gut is characterized, in part, as having excess mucus, increased fat content, acidic pH, increased inflammation, increased antibiotic perturbation, and the potential for increased oxygen availability. These physiological differences shift nutritional availability and the local environment for intestinal microbes, thus likely driving significant changes in microbial metabolism, colonization, and competition with other microbes. The impact of any specific change in this physiological landscape is difficult to parse using human or animal studies. Thus, we have developed a novel culture medium representative of the CF gut environment, inclusive of all the aforementioned features. This medium, called CF-MiPro, maintains CF gut microbiome communities, while significantly shifting nonCF gut microbiome communities toward a CF-like microbial profile, characterized by low Bacteroidetes and high Proteobacteria abundance. This medium is able to maintain this culture composition for up to 5 days of passage. Additionally, microbial communities passaged in CF-MiPro produce significantly less immunomodulatory short-chain fatty acids (SCFA), including propionate and butyrate, than communities passaged in MiPro, a culture medium representative of healthy gut physiology, confirming not only a shift in microbial composition but also altered community function. Our results support the potential for this  culture medium as a new tool for the study of CF gut dysbiosis. IMPORTANCE Cystic fibrosis is an autosomal recessive disease that disrupts ion transport at mucosal surfaces, leading to mucus accumulation and altered physiology of both the lungs and the intestines, among other organs, with the resulting altered environment contributing to an imbalance of microbial communities. Culture media representative of the CF airway have been developed and validated; however, no such medium exists for modeling the CF intestine. Here, we develop and validate a first-generation culture medium inclusive of features that are altered in the CF colon. Our findings suggest this novel medium, called CF-MiPro, as a maintenance medium for CF gut microbiome samples and a flexible tool for studying key drivers of CF-associated gut dysbiosis."	
27503233		Thorax	"{'i': 'FUT2', '#text': 'genotype influences lung function, exacerbation frequency and airway microbiota in non-CF bronchiectasis.'}"	"To assess whether  () genotype affects disease severity and airway infection in patients with non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis. Induced sputum samples were obtained from 112 adult patients with high-resolution CT scan-proven bronchiectasis and at least two exacerbations in the previous year, as part of an unrelated randomised control trial. Presence of null  polymorphisms were determined by gene sequencing and verified by endobronchial biopsy histochemical staining. Outcome measures were FEV% predicted, exacerbation frequency, and bacterial, fungal and viral components of the microbiota (measured by culture independent approaches). Patients were grouped by  loss-of-function genotype; categorised as non-secretors (n=27, ), heterozygous secretors (n=54, ) or homozygous secretors (n=31, ). FEV% was significantly lower in  patients compared with  patients (mean 61.6 (SD 20.0) vs 74.5 (18.0); p=0.023). Exacerbation frequency was significantly higher in  (mean count 5.77) compared with  (4.07; p=0.004) and  (4.63; p=0.026) genotypes. The time until first exacerbation was significantly shorter in  compared with  (HR=0.571 (95% CI 0.343 to 0.950); p=0.031), with a similar trend for  patients (HR=0.577 (0.311 to 1.07); p=0.081).  had a significantly reduced frequency of -dominated airway infection (8.7%) compared with  (31%; p=0.042) and  (36%; p=0.035). In contrast, fungal, viral and non-dominant bacterial components of the microbiome were not significantly different between  genotypes. genotype in patients with non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis was significantly associated with disease outcomes, with homozygous secretors exhibiting lower lung function, higher exacerbation number and a higher frequency of -dominated infection. ACTRN12609000578202 (anzctr.org.au); Pre-results."	
33358119		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	The clinical and microbiological utility of inhaled aztreonam lysine for the treatment of acute pulmonary exacerbations of cystic fibrosis: An open-label randomised crossover study (AZTEC-CF).	"The objective of this study was to explore the clinical and microbiological outcomes associated with substituting inhaled aztreonam lysine for an intravenous antibiotic in the treatment of acute pulmonary exacerbations of CF. An open-label randomised crossover pilot trial was conducted at a UK CF centre among 16 adults with CF and P. aeruginosa infection. Median [IQR] age was 29.5 [24.5-32.5], mean ± SD forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) was 52.4 ± 14.7 % predicted. Over the course of two exacerbations, participants were randomised to sequentially receive 14 days of inhaled aztreonam lysine plus IV colistimethate (AZLI+IV), or dual IV antibiotics (IV+IV). Primary outcome was absolute change in % predicted FEV1. Other outcomes evaluated changes in quality of life, bacterial load and the lung microbiota. The difference between mean change in lung function at day 14 between AZLI+IV and IV+IV was +4.6% (95% CI 2.1-7.2, p=0.002). The minimum clinically important difference of the Cystic Fibrosis Revised Questionnaire (CFQ-R) was achieved more frequently with AZLI+IV (10/12, 83.3%) than IV+IV (7/16, 43.8%), p=0.05. No differences were observed for modulation of serum white cell count, C-reactive protein or sputum bacterial load. Microbiome compositional changes were observed with IV+IV (Bray-Curtis r=0.14, p=0.02), but not AZLI+IV (r=0.03, p=0.64). In adults with CF and P. aeruginosa infection experiencing an acute pulmonary exacerbation, AZLI+IV improved lung function and quality of life compared to the current standard treatment. These findings support the need for larger definitive trials of inhaled antibiotics in the acute setting. EudraCT 2016-002832-34 ClinicalTrials.org NCT02894684."	
30905581		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Assessment of stability and fluctuations of cultured lower airway bacterial communities in people with cystic fibrosis.	"Routine clinical culture detects a subset of the cystic fibrosis (CF) airways microbiota based on culture-independent (molecular) methods. This study aimed to determine how extended sputum culture of viable bacteria changes over time in relation to clinical status and predicts exacerbations. Sputa from patients at a baseline stable and up to three subsequent time-points were analysed by extended-quantitative culture; aerobe/anaerobe densities, ecological indexes and community structure were assessed together with clinical outcomes. Eighty patients were prospectively recruited. Sputa were successfully collected and cultured at 199/267 (74.5%) study visits. Eighty-two sputa from 25 patients comprised a complete sample-set for longitudinal analyses. Bacterial density, ecological indexes and clinical outcomes were unchanged in 18 patients with three sequential stable visits. Conversely, in 7 patients who had an exacerbation, total bacterial and aerobe densities differed over four study visits (P < .001) with this difference particularly apparent between the baseline visit and completion of acute antibiotic treatment where a decrease in density was observed. Bacterial communities were more similar within than between patients but stable patients had the least variation in community structure over time. Using logistic regression in a further analysis, baseline features in 37 patients without compared to 15 patients with a subsequent exacerbation showed that clinical measures rather than bacterial density or ecological indexes were independent predictors of an exacerbation. Greater fluctuation in the viable bacterial community during treatment of an exacerbation than between stable visits was observed. Extended-quantitative culture did not provide prognostic information of a future exacerbation."	
32754722		Cell reports. Medicine	"{'i': 'Pseudomonas', '#text': 'Cystic Fibrosis Lung Transplant Recipients Have Suppressed Airway Interferon Responses during  Infection.'}"	"Lung transplantation can be lifesaving in end-stage cystic fibrosis (CF), but long-term survival is limited by chronic lung allograft dysfunction (CLAD). Persistent upper airway  (PsA) colonization can seed the allograft. While  PsA infection is associated with CLAD in non-CF recipients, this association is less clear for CF recipients experiencing PsA recolonization. Here, we evaluate host and pathogen contributions to this phenomenon. In the context of PsA infection, brushings from the airways of CF recipients demonstrate type 1 interferon gene suppression. Airway epithelial cell (AEC) cultures demonstrate similar findings in the absence of pathogens or immune cells, contrasting with the pre-transplant CF AEC phenotype. Type 1 interferon promoters are relatively hypermethylated in CF AECs. CF subjects in this cohort have more mucoid PsA, while non-CF PsA subjects have decreased microbiome α diversity. Peri-transplant protocols may benefit from consideration of this host and microbiome equilibrium."	
29547097		Microbial genomics	Transmission and lineage displacement drive rapid population genomic flux in cystic fibrosis airway infections of a Pseudomonas aeruginosa epidemic strain.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa chronic infections of cystic fibrosis (CF) airways are a paradigm for within-host evolution with abundant evidence for rapid evolutionary adaptation and diversification. Recently emerged transmissible strains have spread globally, with the Liverpool Epidemic Strain (LES) the most common strain infecting the UK CF population. Previously we have shown that highly divergent lineages of LES can be found within a single infection, consistent with super-infection among a cross-sectional cohort of patients. However, despite its clinical importance, little is known about the impact of transmission on the genetic structure of these infections over time. To characterize this, we longitudinally sampled a meta-population of 15 genetic lineages within the LES over 13 months among seven chronically infected CF patients by genome sequencing. Comparative genome analyses of P. aeruginosa populations revealed that the presence of coexisting lineages contributed more to genetic diversity within an infection than diversification in situ. We observed rapid and substantial shifts in the relative abundance of lineages and replacement of dominant lineages, likely to represent super-infection by repeated transmissions. Lineage dynamics within patients led to rapid changes in the frequencies of mutations across suites of linked loci carried by each lineage. Many loci were associated with important infection phenotypes such as antibiotic resistance, mucoidy and quorum sensing, and were repeatedly mutated in different lineages. These findings suggest that transmission leads to rapid shifts in the genetic structure of CF infections, including in clinically important phenotypes such as antimicrobial resistance, and is likely to impede accurate diagnosis and treatment."	
35524969		The Journal of infectious diseases	Lung-Adapted Staphylococcus aureus Isolates With Dysfunctional Agr System Trigger a Proinflammatory Response.	"Staphylococcus aureus dominates the lung microbiota of children with cystic fibrosis (CF) and persistent clones are able to establish chronic infection for years, having a direct deleterious impact on lung function. However, in this context, the exact contribution of S. aureus to the decline in respiratory function in children with CF is not elucidated. To investigate the contribution of persistent S. aureus clones in CF disease, we undertook the analysis of sequential isogenic isolates recovered from 15 young CF patients. Using an air-liquid infection model, we observed a strong correlation between S. aureus adaption in the lung (late isolates), low toxicity, and proinflammatory cytokine secretion. Conversely, early isolates appeared to be highly cytotoxic but did not promote cytokine secretion. We found that cytokine secretion was dependent on staphylococcal protein A (Spa), which was selectively expressed in late compared to early isolates as a consequence of dysfunctional agr quorum-sensing system. Finally, we demonstrated the involvement of TNF-α receptor 1 signaling in the inflammatory response of airway epithelial cells to these lung-adapted S. aureus isolates. Our results suggest an unexpected direct role of bacterial lung adaptation in the progression of chronic lung disease by promoting a proinflammatory response through acquired agr dysfunction."	
28178425		Canadian journal of microbiology	Synthetic cystic fibrosis sputum medium diminishes Burkholderia cenocepacia antifungal activity against Aspergillus fumigatus independently of phenylacetic acid production.	"Phenylacetic acid (PAA), an intermediate of phenylalanine degradation, is emerging as a signal molecule in microbial interactions with the host. In this work, we explore the presence of phenylalanine and PAA catabolism in 3 microbial pathogens of the cystic fibrosis (CF) lung microbiome: Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Burkholderia cenocepacia, and Aspergillus fumigatus. While in silico analysis of B. cenocepacia J2315 and A. fumigatus Af293 genome sequences showed complete pathways from phenylalanine to PAA, the P. aeruginosa PAO1 genome lacked several coding genes for phenylalanine and PAA catabolic enzymes. High-performance liquid chromatography analysis of supernatants from B. cenocepacia K56-2 detected PAA when grown in Luria-Bertani medium but not in synthetic cystic fibrosis sputum medium (SCFM). However, we were unable to identify PAA production by A. fumigatus or P. aeruginosa in any of the conditions tested. The inhibitory effect of B. cenocepacia on A. fumigatus growth was evaluated using agar plate interaction assays. Inhibition of fungal growth by B. cenocepacia was lessened in SCFM but this effect was not dependent on bacterial production of PAA. In summary, while we demonstrated PAA production by B. cenocepacia, we were not able to link this metabolite with the B. cenocepacia - A. fumigatus microbial interaction in CF nutritional conditions."	
25762987		Frontiers in microbiology	The lung mycobiome: an emerging field of the human respiratory microbiome.	"The lung microbiome, which is believed to be stable or at least transient in healthy people, is now considered as a poly-microorganism component contributing to disease pathogenesis. Most research studies on the respiratory microbiome have focused on bacteria and their impact on lung health, but there is evidence that other non-bacterial organisms, comprising the viruses (virome) and fungi (mycobiome), are also likely to play an important role in healthy people as well as in patients. In the last few years, the lung mycobiome (previously named the fungal microbiota or microbiome) has drawn closer attention. There is growing evidence that the lung mycobiome has a significant impact on clinical outcome of chronic respiratory diseases (CRD) such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cystic fibrosis, and bronchiectasis. Thanks to advances in culture independent methods, especially next generation sequencing, a number of fungi not detected by culture methods have been molecularly identified in human lungs. It has been shown that the structure and diversity of the lung mycobiome vary in different populations (healthy and different diseased individuals) which could play a role in CRD. Moreover, the link between lung mycobiome and different biomes of other body sites, especially the gut, has also been unraveled. By interacting with the bacteriome and/or virome, the respiratory mycobiome appears to be a cofactor in inflammation and in the host immune response, and therefore may contribute to the decline of the lung function and the disease progression. In this review, we report the recent limited explorations of the human respiratory mycobiome, and discuss the mycobiome's connections with other local microbial communities, as well as the relationships with the different biomes of other body sites. These studies suggest several outlooks for this understudied emerging field, which will certainly call for a renewal of our understanding of pulmonary diseases."	
33421446		Journal of microbiological methods	Implementation of microbiota analysis in clinical trials for cystic fibrosis lung infection: Experience from the OligoG phase 2b clinical trials.	"Culture-independent microbiota analysis is widely used in research and being increasingly used in translational studies. However, methods for standardisation and application of these analyses in clinical trials are limited. Here we report the microbiota analysis that accompanied two phase 2b clinical trials of the novel, non-antibiotic therapy OligoG CF-5/20 for cystic fibrosis (CF) lung infection. Standardised protocols (DNA extraction, PCR, qPCR and 16S rRNA gene sequencing analysis) were developed for application to the Pseudomonas aeruginosa (NCT02157922) and Burkholderia cepacia complex (NCT02453789) clinical trials involving 45 and 13 adult trial participants, respectively. Microbiota analysis identified that paired sputum samples from an individual participant, taken within 2 h of each other, had reproducible bacterial diversity profiles. Although culture microbiology had identified patients as either colonised by P. aeruginosa or B. cepacia complex species at recruitment, microbiota analysis revealed patient lung infection communities were not always dominated by these key CF pathogens. Microbiota profiles were patient-specific and remained stable over the course of both clinical trials (6 sampling points over the course of 140 days). Within the Burkholderia trial, participants were infected with B. cenocepacia (n = 4), B. multivorans (n = 6), or an undetermined species (n = 3). Colonisation with either B. cenocepacia or B. multivorans influenced the overall bacterial community structure in sputum. Overall, we have shown that sputum microbiota in adults with CF is stable over a 2 h time-frame, suggesting collection of a single sample on a collection day is sufficient to capture the microbiota diversity. Despite the uniform pathogen culture-positivity status at recruitment, trial participants were highly heterogeneous in their lung microbiota. Understanding the microbiota profiles of individuals with CF ahead of future clinical trials would be beneficial in the context of patient stratification and trial design."	
31018133		Cell reports	Direct Lung Sampling Indicates That Established Pathogens Dominate Early Infections in Children with Cystic Fibrosis.	"Culture and sequencing have produced divergent hypotheses about cystic fibrosis (CF) lung infections. Culturing suggests that CF lungs are uninfected before colonization by a limited group of CF pathogens. Sequencing suggests diverse communities of mostly oral bacteria inhabit lungs early on and diversity decreases as disease progresses. We studied the lung microbiota of CF children using bronchoscopy and sequencing, with measures to reduce contamination. We found no evidence for oral bacterial communities in lung lavages that lacked CF pathogens. Lavage microbial diversity varied widely, but decreases in diversity appeared to be driven by increased CF pathogen abundance, which reduced the signal from contaminants. Streptococcus, Prevotella, and Veillonella DNA was detected in some lavages containing CF pathogens, but DNA from these organisms was vastly exceeded by CF pathogen DNA and was not associated with inflammation. These findings support the hypothesis that established CF pathogens are primarily responsible for CF lung infections."	
25934071		The Journal of pediatrics	Harnessing the Early-Life Microbiota to Protect Children with Cystic Fibrosis.		
30784601	metagenomics	Cell reports	Human and Extracellular DNA Depletion for Metagenomic Analysis of Complex Clinical Infection Samples Yields Optimized Viable Microbiome Profiles.	"Metagenomic sequencing is a promising approach for identifying and characterizing organisms and their functional characteristics in complex, polymicrobial infections, such as airway infections in people with cystic fibrosis. These analyses are often hampered, however, by overwhelming quantities of human DNA, yielding only a small proportion of microbial reads for analysis. In addition, many abundant microbes in respiratory samples can produce large quantities of extracellular bacterial DNA originating either from biofilms or dead cells. We describe a method for simultaneously depleting DNA from intact human cells and extracellular DNA (human and bacterial) in sputum, using selective lysis of eukaryotic cells and endonuclease digestion. We show that this method increases microbial sequencing depth and, consequently, both the number of taxa detected and coverage of individual genes such as those involved in antibiotic resistance. This finding underscores the substantial impact of DNA from sources other than live bacteria in microbiological analyses of complex, chronic infection specimens."	
26595726		Annals of the American Thoracic Society	Chair's Summary: Mechanisms of Exacerbation of Lung Diseases.	"This year's conference focused on the origins of exacerbations in chronic lung diseases, such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, and cystic fibrosis. Common themes emerged, with the role of viral infections being key. In addition, there were data presented supporting the role of the microbiota and microbial dysbiosis either in the gut or in the lung contributing to disease progression and the susceptibility to disease exacerbation. These effects can be amplified by the triggering of biologic cascades that include alterations in oxidative stress and inflammatory mediator release, which can be driven by epithelial cell injury or activation."	
22211589		FEMS immunology and medical microbiology	The microorganisms in chronically infected end-stage and non-end-stage cystic fibrosis patients.	"Patients suffering from cystic fibrosis (CF) develop chronic lung infections because of highly viscous mucus, where bacteria can form biofilms. In this study, we investigated the microorganisms present in the lungs of end-stage and non-end-stage patients using standard culturing techniques and molecular methods. Tissue and sputum samples (n = 34) from explanted lungs of five end-stage patients were examined along with routine expectorates (n = 15) from 13 patients with non-end-stage CF, representing earlier stages of chronic lung infections. Previously, using peptide nucleic acid (PNA) fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), we have shown that Pseudomonas aeruginosa was the sole pathogen in end-stage CF lungs (Pediatr Pulmonol 2009, 44: 547). In this study, this tendency was supported by the results of real-time PCR, confirming previous results obtained by standard culturing and 16S rRNA gene analysis (J Clin Microbiol 2011, 49: 4352). Conversely, the non-end-stage patients were found to harbor several species by culturing. PNA FISH confirmed heterogeneous microbiota and showed that the bacteria were located in monospecies aggregates with no apparent physical interaction between the different microcolonies. In conclusion, standard culturing identifies the dominating pathogens, which seem to reside in monospecies microcolonies. The possibility of signaling between the distinct microcolonies still has to be verified and elucidated."	
38709077		Journal of visualized experiments : JoVE	Growing a Cystic Fibrosis-Relevant Polymicrobial Biofilm to Probe Community Phenotypes.	"Most in vitro models lack the capacity to fully probe bacterial phenotypes emerging from the complex interactions observed in real-life environments. This is particularly true in the context of hard-to-treat, chronic, and polymicrobial biofilm-based infections detected in the airways of individuals living with cystic fibrosis (CF), a multiorgan genetic disease. While multiple microbiome studies have defined the microbial compositions detected in the airway of people with CF (pwCF), no in vitro models thus far have fully integrated critical CF-relevant lung features. Therefore, a significant knowledge gap exists in the capacity to investigate the mechanisms driving the pathogenesis of mixed species CF lung infections. Here, we describe a recently developed four-species microbial community model, including Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus sanguinis, and Prevotella melaninogenica grown in CF-like conditions. Through the utilization of this system, clinically relevant phenotypes such as antimicrobial recalcitrance of several pathogens were observed and explored at the molecular level. The usefulness of this in vitro model resides in its standardized workflow that can facilitate the study of interspecies interactions in the context of chronic CF lung infections."	
24373613		BMC microbiology	The murine lung microbiome in relation to the intestinal and vaginal bacterial communities.	"This work provides the first description of the bacterial population of the lung microbiota in mice. The aim of this study was to examine the lung microbiome in mice, the most used animal model for inflammatory lung diseases such as COPD, cystic fibrosis and asthma.Bacterial communities from broncho-alveolar lavage fluids and lung tissue were compared to samples taken from fecal matter (caecum) and vaginal lavage fluid from female BALB/cJ mice. Using a customized 16S rRNA sequencing protocol amplifying the V3-V4 region our study shows that the mice have a lung microbiome that cluster separately from mouse intestinal microbiome (caecum). The mouse lung microbiome is dominated by Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes and Cyanobacteria overlapping the vaginal microbiome. We also show that removal of host tissue or cells from lung fluid during the DNA extraction step has an impact on the resulting bacterial community profile. Sample preparation needs to be considered when choosing an extraction method and interpreting data. We have consistently amplified bacterial DNA from mouse lungs that is distinct from the intestinal microbiome in these mice. The gut microbiome has been extensively studied for its links to development of disease. Here we suggest that also the lung microbiome could be important in relation to inflammatory lung diseases. Further research is needed to understand the contribution of the lung microbiome and the gut-lung axis to the development of lung diseases such as COPD and asthma."	
21926193		Applied and environmental microbiology	Cross-sectional and longitudinal comparisons of the predominant fecal microbiota compositions of a group of pediatric patients with cystic fibrosis and their healthy siblings.	"Although only poorly documented, it can be assumed that intensive antibiotic treatments of chronic lung infections in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) also affect the diversity and metabolic functioning of the gastrointestinal microbiota and potentially lead to a state of dysbiosis. A better knowledge of the differences in gut microbiota composition and stability between patients with CF and healthy subjects could lead to optimization of current antibiotic therapies and/or development of add-on therapies. Using conventional culturing and population fingerprinting by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of 16S rRNA amplicons, we compared the predominant fecal microbiota of 21 patients with CF and 24 healthy siblings in a cross-sectional study. General medium counts, as well as counts on media specific for lactic acid bacteria, clostridia, Bifidobacterium spp., Veillonella spp., and Bacteroides-Prevotella spp., were consistently higher in sibling samples than in CF samples, whereas the reverse was found for enterobacterial counts. DGGE fingerprinting uncovered large intersubject variations in both study groups. On the other hand, the cross-sectional data indicated that the predominant fecal microbiota of patients and siblings had comparable species richness. In addition, a longitudinal study was performed on 7 or 8 consecutive samples collected over a 2-year period from two patients and their respective siblings. For these samples, DGGE profiling indicated an overall trend toward lower temporal stability and lower species richness in the predominant fecal CF microbiota. The observed compositional and dynamic perturbations provide the first evidence of a general dysbiosis in children with CF compared to their siblings."	
30144894		Clinical nutrition ESPEN	Probiotics in cystic fibrosis patients: A double blind crossover placebo controlled study: Pilot study from the ESPGHAN Working Group on Pancreas/CF.	"A potential positive effect of probiotics in cystic fibrosis (CF) on fecal calprotectin (FCP), pulmonary exacerbations and weight has been described in small controlled trials. A double-blind multicenter cross-over study (2 × 4 m) was performed looking at abdominal pain, nutritional status, pulmonary function, pulmonary exacerbation, FCP and lactulose/mannitol gut permeability test. Patients kept a diary with daily scoring of abdominal pain, stool frequency and consistency as well as treatment changes. 31 CF patients entered the study of which 25 finished it. At start patients aged 9.3yrs (6.9-12.2), had a median BMI z-score of -0.5 (-1.5-0.08), height z-score of -0.4 (-1.1-0.05) and FEV1% of 100% (87.2-106.6). Median FCP at start was 61 μg/g (17-108) and gut permeability 0.079 (0.051-0.122). No significant changes were observed in the clinical parameters (BMI, FEV1%, abdominal pain, exacerbations). Despite being frequently abnormal (17/28 (61%) >50 mg/kg), FCP did not change significantly with probiotics. The proportion of patients with normal permeability was 8% during placebo and 32% during probiotic treatment (p = 0.031). FCP correlated to BMI z-score (p = 0.043) and gut permeability to abdominal pain (p = 0.015). The microbiome revealed a high predominance of Actinobacteria and Proteobacteriae. Probiotic supplementation did not result in a shift at the phylum nor at phylogenetic level. Normalization of gut permeability was observed in 13% of patients during probiotic treatment. However, none of the previously described effects could be confirmed."	
33751837		Pediatric pulmonology	A formalized transition program for cystic fibrosis: A 10-year retrospective analysis of 97 patients in Lyon.	"The prognosis of people diagnosed with cystic fibrosis (CF) has dramatically improved over the past decade in France, largely due to advances in CF care management, including an emphasis on chronic maintenance medications. Currently, the majority of French CF patients are adults, which means that they went through a transition process from receiving care at a pediatric CF center to receiving care at an adult CF center. To determine the impact of the transfer on clinical evolution, we report the transition procedure of our CF center in Lyon. From January 2006 to December 2016, 97 CF patients underwent a standardized process of transitioning from the pediatric to the adult CF center in Lyon. We compared the clinical evolution of these patients during three periods, starting the year before transition and ending the year after transition. Clinical data taken into account were forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1 in liters), body mass index (BMI in kg/m ), pulmonary colonization, number of antibiotic courses, number of days of hospitalization per year, and outpatient visits per year. No significant differences were observed between respiratory and nutritional status, respiratory microbiome, number of antibiotic courses, or number of hospitalizations or visits when comparing the threeperiods of observation around transition (the year before, the first year after, and the second year after transfer). The standardized transition procedure used in Lyon is associated with the clinical stability of our CF patients."	
32171662		"Genomics, proteomics & bioinformatics"	Meta-analysis Reveals Potential Influence of Oxidative Stress on the Airway Microbiomes of Cystic Fibrosis Patients.	"The lethal chronic airway infection of the cystic fibrosis (CF) patients is predisposed by colonization of specific CF-philic pathogens or the CF microbiomes, but key processes and reasons of the microbiome settlement in the patients are yet to be fully understood, especially their survival and metabolic dynamics from normal to diseased status under treatment. Here, we report our meta-analysis results on CF airway microbiomes based on metabolic networks reconstructed from genome information at species level. The microbiomes of CF patients appear to engage much more redox-related activities than those of controls, and by constructing a large dataset of anti-oxidative stress (anti-OS) genes, our quantitative evaluation of the anti-OS capacity of each bacterial species in the CF microbiomes confirms strong conservation of the anti-OS responses within genera and also shows that the CF pathogens have significantly higher anti-OS capacity than commensals and other typical respiratory pathogens. In addition, the anti-OS capacity of a relevant species correlates with its relative fitness for the airways of CF patients over that for the airways of controls. Moreover, the total anti-OS capacity of the respiratory microbiome of CF patients is collectively higher than that of controls, which increases with disease progression, especially after episodes of acute exacerbation and antibiotic treatment. According to these results, we propose that the increased OS in the airways of CF patients may play an important role in reshaping airway microbiomes to a more resistant status that favors the pre-infection colonization of the CF pathogens for a higher anti-OS capacity."	
25237989		Annals of the American Thoracic Society	Expanding our understanding of respiratory microbiota in cystic fibrosis.		
30640865		Journal of pediatric gastroenterology and nutrition	Decreased Fecal Calprotectin Levels in Cystic Fibrosis Patients After Antibiotic Treatment for Respiratory Exacerbation.	"In all patients with cystic fibrosis (CF), gastrointestinal (GI) tract CF transmembrane conductance regulator dysfunction occurs early in life. The identical pathophysiological triad of obstruction, infection, and inflammation causes disease of the airways and in the intestinal tract (CF enteropathy). Mucus accumulation within GI tract is a niche for abnormal microbial colonization, leading to dysbiosis. Fecal calprotectin (FC) is a neutrophil cytosolic protein released during apoptosis and necrosis and reflects inflammatory status. Systemic antibiotic treatment for pulmonary exacerbations has been shown to improve systemic inflammatory markers and serum and sputum calprotectin. Antibiotic treatment aimed at pulmonary complaints may improve GI tract inflammatory status. We hypothesized that high levels of FC present during pulmonary exacerbation are due, in part, to multiorgan dysbiosis and thus should diminish with systemic antibiotic treatment. This prospective pilot study enrolled 14 patients with CF, with no current GI symptoms. FC levels and lung function were measured at the beginning and end of systemic antibiotic treatment. Compared to preantibiotic treatment baseline values, end of treatment FC levels declined significantly after antibiotic treatment, P = 0.004 and similarly, there was significant improvement in forced expiratory volume in 1 second, P = 0.002. High levels of FC during respiratory exacerbation may reflect a systemic exacerbation rather than solely pulmonary. Antibiotic treatment lowered the FC levels possibly by its impact on the intestinal microbiome."	
38652457		Microbiology spectrum	"{'i': 'Rothia mucilaginosa', '#text': 'Genome-scale model of  predicts gene essentialities and reveals metabolic capabilities.'}"	"Cystic fibrosis (CF), an inherited genetic disorder caused by mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator gene, results in sticky and thick mucosal fluids. This environment facilitates the colonization of various microorganisms, some of which can cause acute and chronic lung infections, while others may positively impact the disease. , an oral commensal, is relatively abundant in the lungs of CF patients. Recent studies have unveiled its anti-inflammatory properties using  three-dimensional lung epithelial cell cultures and  mouse models relevant to chronic lung diseases. Apart from this,  has been associated with severe infections. However, its metabolic capabilities and genotype-phenotype relationships remain largely unknown. To gain insights into its cellular metabolism and genetic content, we developed the first manually curated genome-scale metabolic model, RM23NL. Through growth kinetics and high-throughput phenotypic microarray testings, we defined its complete catabolic phenome. Subsequently, we assessed the model's effectiveness in accurately predicting growth behaviors and utilizing multiple substrates. We used constraint-based modeling techniques to formulate novel hypotheses that could expedite the development of antimicrobial strategies. More specifically, we detected putative essential genes and assessed their effect on metabolism under varying nutritional conditions. These predictions could offer novel potential antimicrobial targets without laborious large-scale screening of knockouts and mutant transposon libraries. Overall, RM23NL demonstrates a solid capability to predict cellular phenotypes and holds immense potential as a valuable resource for accurate predictions in advancing antimicrobial therapies. Moreover, it can guide metabolic engineering to tailor 's metabolism for desired performance.IMPORTANCECystic fibrosis (CF) is a genetic disorder characterized by thick mucosal secretions, leading to chronic lung infections.  is a common bacterium found in various parts of the human body, acting as a normal part of the flora. In people with weakened immune systems, it can become an opportunistic pathogen, while it is prevalent and active in CF airways. Recent studies have highlighted its anti-inflammatory properties in the lower pulmonary system, indicating the intricate relationship between microbes and human health. Herein, we have developed the first manually curated metabolic model of . Our study examined the previously unknown relationships between the bacterium's genotype and phenotype and identified essential genes that impact the metabolism under various conditions. With this, we opt for paving the way for developing new strategies in antimicrobial therapy and metabolic engineering, leading to enhanced therapeutic outcomes in cystic fibrosis and related conditions."	
23513028		Thorax	Intravenous antibiotics reduce the presence of Aspergillus in adult cystic fibrosis sputum.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Aspergillus fumigatus frequently co-colonise the airways of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). This study aimed to assess the impact of short-term administration of intravenous antipseudomonal antibiotics during CF exacerbations on the presence of Aspergillus. Pre- and post-antibiotic sputum samples from 26 adult patients with CF and chronic Pseudomonas colonisation were analysed for the presence of Aspergillus by fungal culture, real-time PCR and galactomannan antigen (GM). Lung function (forced expiratory volume in 1 s and forced vital capacity % predicted) and blood levels of total IgE, specific A fumigatus IgE and specific A fumigatus IgG were measured at the start and end of antibiotics. Respiratory viral real-time PCR and bacterial community profiling using ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (RISA) were performed to estimate concurrent changes in the lung microbiome. Aspergillus PCR and GM were more sensitive than culture in detecting Aspergillus species (culture 8%, GM 31%, PCR 77%). There was a significant decline in the presence of Aspergillus, measured both by PCR and GM index, following antibacterial therapy (PCR: median increase in crossing threshold 1.7 (IQR 0.5-3.8), p<0.001; GM: median fall in GM index 0.7 (IQR 0.4-1.6), p=0.016). All patients improved clinically with a significant increase in lung function (p<0.0001). RISA community analysis showed large changes in bacterial community similarity in 67% of patients following antibiotics. Viral RT-PCR demonstrated the presence of a concurrent respiratory virus in 27% of patients. Intravenous antibiotics targeting Pseudomonas during CF pulmonary exacerbations have a negative impact on the presence of Aspergillus in sputum samples."	
25392361		Journal of clinical microbiology	Analysis of changes in diversity and abundance of the microbial community in a cystic fibrosis patient over a multiyear period.	"The evolution of pulmonary disease in cystic fibrosis (CF) usually begins when bacteria get trapped in mucus in the lungs and become established as a chronic infection. While most CF patients experience periods of stability, pulmonary exacerbations (PEs) can occur multiple times per year and result in permanent damage to the lungs. Little is known of the shift from a period of stability to a PE, but this shift is likely to be attributed to changes in the bacterial community. Here, we identified changes in the lung microbiota to determine if they reflect patient health, indicate the onset of exacerbations, or are related to antibiotic treatment. In contrast to most bacterial studies on CF, we collected weekly samples from an adult CF patient over a period of 3 years and performed quantitative PCR (qPCR) and Illumina sequencing on those samples. While many DNA-based studies have shown the CF microbiota to be relatively stable, we observed an increase in the total bacterial abundance over time (P < 0.001), while the number of different taxa (bacterial richness) and the number of different taxa and their abundances (diversity) significantly decreased over time (P < 0.03), which was likely due to repeated antibiotic exposure. Using genus-specific primers with qPCR, we observed an increase in the abundance of Burkholderia multivorans, a CF-associated pathogen, prior to the occurrence of a PE (P = 0.006). Combining these DNA-based techniques with frequent sampling identified a potential initiator for exacerbations and described a response of the CF microbiota to time and antibiotic treatment not observed in previous CF microbiota studies."	
21621347		Pathologie-biologie	Intragenomic and intraspecific heterogeneity of the 16S rRNA gene in seven bacterial species from the respiratory tract of cystic fibrosis patients assessed by PCR-Temporal Temperature Gel Electrophoresis.	"16S rRNA gene-based cultivation-independent methods are increasingly used to study the diversity of microbiota during health and disease. One bias of these methods is the variability of 16S rRNA gene that may exist among strains of a same species (intraspecific heterogeneity) or between rrs copies in a genome (intragenomic heterogeneity). We evaluated the level of intraspecific and intragenomic 16S rDNA variability in seven species frequently encountered in respiratory tract samples in cystic fibrosis (CF). A total of 179 strains were subjected to V3 region 16S rDNA PCR-TTGE. Using this easy-to-perform and rapid method, different levels of V3 region rrs heterogeneity were demonstrated. No intraspecific and intragenomic rrs heterogeneity was demonstrated for Moraxella catarrhalis (n=16), Pseudomonas aeruginosa (n=31) and Streptococcus pneumoniae (n=14) showing a single PCR-TTGE band characteristic of the species. Low level of intraspecific heterogeneity was observed for Staphylococcus aureus (n=30), Stenotrophomonas maltophilia (n=29) and Achromobacter xylosoxidans (n=28), and 17%, 38% and 96% of these strains showed intragenomic heterogeneity (two to four different rrs copies), respectively. Haemophilus influenzae (n=31) displayed the higher level of intraspecific variability with 23 different PCR-TTGE patterns and 61% of the strains showed intragenomic rrs heterogeneity (two to four different rrs copies). Although only one hypervariable region of the 16S rRNA gene was explored, intraspecific and intragenomic rrs heterogeneity was frequently observed in this study and should be taken into consideration for a better interpretation of 16S rRNA gene-based diversity profiles in denaturing gels and to avoid any overestimation of the respiratory microbiota diversity in CF."	
28705217		BMC pulmonary medicine	Monitoring clinical and microbiological evolution of a cystic fibrosis patient over 26 years: experience of a Brazilian CF Centre.	"Burkholderia cepacia complex is a group of opportunistic pathogens in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients believed to be associated with poor prognosis and patient-to-patient transmissibility. Little is known about clinical outcomes after B. vietnamiensis chronic colonization/infection. A 33 yo male patient had diagnosis of CF by 7 yo, after recurrent pneumonia during infancy and lobectomy (left upper lobe) at 6 yo. Burkholderia cepacia complex (Bcc) was first isolated by 13 yo, and the patient fulfilled the criteria for chronic colonization by 15 yo. In the following 16 years (1997-2013), there was intermittent isolation of P. aeruginosa and continuous isolation of Bcc, identified as B. vietnamiensis. There was clinical and laboratorial stability for 16 years with annual rate of decline in forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1) and forced vital capacity (FVC) of 1.61 and 1.35%, respectively. From 2013 to 2015, there was significant clinical and lung function deterioration: annual rate of decline in FEV1 and FVC was 3 and 4.1%, respectively while body mass index decreased from 18.1 to 17.1. Episodes of hemoptysis and respiratory exacerbations (with hospital admissions) became more frequent. CF related diabetes was diagnosed (fasting glycemia: 116 mg/dL, oral glucose tolerance test: 305 mg/dL). Because of the severity of the disease in the last years, in addition to traditional microbiological surveillance, microbiome analysis by next generation sequencing (NGS) was performed on respiratory secretions. The NGS showed that 97% of the sequencing data were attributed to genus Burkholderia. We report the case of a 33-year-old male CF patient known to have chronic infection with B. vietnamiensis who remained clinically stable for 16 years and presented recent clinical and laboratorial deterioration. Microbiome analysis of respiratory secretions was performed in 3 samples collected in 2014-2015. Clinical deterioration overlapped with cystic fibrosis-related diabetes and microbiome composition revealed no significant differences when compared microbiome results to culture dependent methods."	
29378945	microbial genomics	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	"{'i': 'Escherichia coli', '#text': 'Adaptation of commensal proliferating  to the intestinal tract of young children with cystic fibrosis.'}"	"The mature human gut microbiota is established during the first years of life, and altered intestinal microbiomes have been associated with several human health disorders.  usually represents less than 1% of the human intestinal microbiome, whereas in cystic fibrosis (CF), greater than 50% relative abundance is common and correlates with intestinal inflammation and fecal fat malabsorption. Despite the proliferation of  and other Proteobacteria in conditions involving chronic gastrointestinal tract inflammation, little is known about adaptation of specific characteristics associated with microbiota clonal expansion. We show that  isolated from fecal samples of young children with CF has adapted to growth on glycerol, a major component of fecal fat.  isolates from different CF patients demonstrate an increased growth rate in the presence of glycerol compared with  from healthy controls, and unrelated CF  strains have independently acquired this growth trait. Furthermore, CF and control  isolates have differential gene expression when grown in minimal media with glycerol as the sole carbon source. While CF isolates display a growth-promoting transcriptional profile, control isolates engage stress and stationary-phase programs, which likely results in slower growth rates. Our results indicate that there is selection of unique characteristics within the microbiome of individuals with CF, which could contribute to individual disease outcomes."	
37291132		NPJ biofilms and microbiomes	Combining SNAPs with antibiotics shows enhanced synergistic efficacy against S. aureus and P. aeruginosa biofilms.	"Biofilm infections are associated with a high mortality risk for patients. Antibiotics perform poorly against biofilm communities, so high doses and prolonged treatments are often used in clinical settings. We investigated the pairwise interactions of two synthetic nano-engineered antimicrobial polymers (SNAPs). The g-D50 copolymer was synergistic with penicillin and silver sulfadiazine against planktonic Staphylococcus aureus USA300 in synthetic wound fluid. Furthermore, the combination of g-D50 and silver sulfadiazine showed a potent synergistic antibiofilm activity against S. aureus USA300 using in vitro and ex vivo wound biofilm models. The a-T50 copolymer was synergistic with colistin against planktonic Pseudomonas aeruginosa in synthetic cystic fibrosis medium, and this pair showed a potent synergistic antibiofilm activity against P. aeruginosa in an ex vivo cystic fibrosis lung model. SNAPs thus have the potential for increased antibiofilm performance in combination with certain antibiotics to shorten prolonged treatments and reduce dosages against biofilm infection."	
34446725		Nature communications	Global phylogenomic analyses of Mycobacterium abscessus provide context for non cystic fibrosis infections and the evolution of antibiotic resistance.	"Mycobacterium abscessus (MAB) is an emerging pathogen that leads to chronic lung infections. To date, the global population structure of non-cystic fibrosis (CF) MAB and evolutionary patterns of drug resistance emergence have not been investigated. Here we construct a global dataset of 1,279 MAB whole genomes from CF or non-CF patients. We utilize whole genome analysis to assess relatedness, phylogeography, and drug resistance evolution. MAB isolates from CF and non-CF hosts are interspersed throughout the phylogeny, such that the majority of dominant circulating clones include isolates from both populations, indicating that global spread of MAB clones is not sequestered to CF contexts. We identify a large clade of M. abscessus harboring the erm(41) T28C mutation, predicted to confer macrolide susceptibility in this otherwise macrolide-resistant species. Identification of multiple evolutionary events within this clade, consistent with regain of wild type, intrinsic macrolide resistance, underscores the critical importance of macrolides in MAB."	
34686349		Cell reports	Adaptation and genomic erosion in fragmented Pseudomonas aeruginosa populations in the sinuses of people with cystic fibrosis.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa notoriously adapts to the airways of people with cystic fibrosis (CF), yet how infection-site biogeography and associated evolutionary processes vary as lifelong infections progress remains unclear. Here we test the hypothesis that early adaptations promoting aggregation influence evolutionary-genetic trajectories by examining longitudinal P. aeruginosa from the sinuses of six adults with CF. Highly host-adapted lineages harbored mutator genotypes displaying signatures of early genome degradation associated with recent host restriction. Using an advanced imaging technique (MiPACT-HCR [microbial identification after passive clarity technique]), we find population structure tracks with genome degradation, with the most host-adapted, genome-degraded P. aeruginosa (the mutators) residing in small, sparse aggregates. We propose that following initial adaptive evolution in larger populations under strong selection for aggregation, P. aeruginosa persists in small, fragmented populations that experience stronger effects of genetic drift. These conditions enrich for mutators and promote degenerative genome evolution. Our findings underscore the importance of infection-site biogeography to pathogen evolution."	
19814773		Neurogastroenterology and motility	Enteric circular muscle dysfunction in the cystic fibrosis mouse small intestine.	"BACKGROUND Cystic fibrosis (CF) has multiple effects on the gastrointestinal system, including altered motility. The Cftr knockout mouse model of CF has impaired small intestinal transit but the mechanism is unknown. METHODS Behaviour of circular smooth muscle was studied in an organ bath. Expression levels of prostaglandin (PG) degradative genes were measured by quantitative RT-PCR, and PGE(2) levels were measured by enzyme immunoassay. KEY RESULTS Cystic fibrosis circular muscle activity was erratic and had variable frequency of contractions, as compared to WT. The CF tissue was non-responsive to cholinergic stimulation or direct KCl depolarization. PGE(2) and PGF(2alpha) are significantly elevated in the CF mouse small intestine, and we hypothesized these contribute to impaired smooth muscle activity. After inhibition of PG synthesis, the CF circular muscle exhibited greater cholinergic responsiveness, which was reversed by exogenous PGE(2). PGF(2alpha) enhanced activity of CF tissue only after inhibition of PG synthesis. The enteric microbiota was implicated in PGE(2)-mediated dysmotility because broad spectrum antibiotic treated WT mice, which have slowed transit, exhibit impaired circular muscle activity. This was accompanied by decreased expression of PG degradative genes and increased intestinal PGE(2) levels. Furthermore, administration of oral laxative, which eradicates bacterial overgrowth and improves transit in CF mice, increased expression of PG degradative genes, decreased PGE(2) levels, and improved CF muscle activity. CONCLUSIONS & INFERENCES These results suggest that the enteric microbiota modulates PGE(2) levels in a complex manner, which affects enteric smooth muscle activity and contributes to slower small intestinal transit in CF."	
20368138		Human genomics	Combination of 16S rRNA variable regions provides a detailed analysis of bacterial community dynamics in the lungs of cystic fibrosis patients.	"Chronic bronchopulmonary bacterial infections remain the most common cause of morbidity and mortality among patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). Recent community sequencing work has now shown that the bacterial community in the CF lung is polymicrobial. Identifying bacteria in the CF lung through sequencing can be costly and is not practical for many laboratories. Molecular techniques such as terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism or amplicon length heterogeneity-polymerase chain reaction (LH-PCR) can provide many laboratories with the ability to study CF bacterial communities without costly sequencing. The aim of this study was to determine if the use of LH-PCR with multiple hypervariable regions of the 16S rRNA gene could be used to identify organisms found in sputum DNA. This work also determined if LH-PCR could be used to observe the dynamics of lung infections over a period of time. Nineteen samples were analysed with the V1 and the V1_V2 region of the 16S rRNA gene. Based on the amplicon size present in the V1_V2 region, Pseudomonas aeruginosa was confirmed to be in all 19 samples obtained from the patients. The V1 region provided a higher power of discrimination between bacterial profiles of patients. Both regions were able to identify trends in the bacterial population over a period of time. LH profiles showed that the CF lung community is dynamic and that changes in the community may in part be driven by the patient's antibiotic treatment. LH-PCR is a tool that is well suited for studying bacterial communities and their dynamics."	
37244842		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	"Quantifying variation in home spirometry in people with cystic fibrosis during baseline health, and associations with clinical outcomes."	"Home spirometry is increasingly used to monitor lung function in people with cystic fibrosis (pwCF). Although decreases in lung function in the setting of increased respiratory symptoms are consistent with a pulmonary exacerbation (PEx), the interpretation of home spirometry during asymptomatic periods of baseline health is unclear. The aims of this study were to determine the variation in home spirometry in pwCF during asymptomatic periods of baseline health and to identify associations between this variation and PEx. Near-daily home spirometry measurements were obtained from a cohort of pwCF enrolled in a long-term study of the airway microbiome. Associations between the degree of variation in home spirometry and the time to next PEx were evaluated. Thirteen subjects (mean age of 29 years and mean percent predicted forced expiratory volume in one second [ppFEV] of 60) provided a median of 204 spirometry readings taken during 40 periods of baseline health. The mean week-to-week within-subject level of variation in ppFEV was 15.2 ± 6.2%. The degree of variation in ppFEV during baseline health was not associated with time to PEx. Variation in ppFEV measured with near-daily home spirometry in pwCF during periods of baseline health exceeded the variation in ppFEV expected in clinic spirometry (based on ATS guidelines). The degree of variation in ppFEV during baseline health was not associated with time to PEx. These data are relevant for guiding interpretation of home spirometry."	
23328523		American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine	Reestablishment of recipient-associated microbiota in the lung allograft is linked to reduced risk of bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome.	"Bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome (BOS) is the primary limiting factor for long-term survival after lung transplantation, and has previously been associated with microbial infections. To cross-sectionally and longitudinally characterize microbial communities in allografts from transplant recipients with and without BOS using a culture-independent method based on high-throughput sequencing. Allografts were sampled by bronchoalveolar lavage, and microbial communities were profiled using 16S rRNA gene amplicon pyrosequencing. Community profiles were compared using the weighted Unifrac metric and the relationship between microbial populations, BOS, and other covariates was explored using PERMANOVA and logistic regression. Microbial communities in transplant patients fell into two main groups: those dominated by Pseudomonas or those dominated by Streptococcus and Veillonella, which seem to be mutually exclusive lung microbiomes. Aspergillus culture was also negatively correlated with the Pseudomonas-dominated group. The reestablishment of dominant populations present in patients pretransplant, notably Pseudomonas in individuals with cystic fibrosis, was negatively correlated with BOS. Recolonization of the allograft by Pseudomonas in individuals with cystic fibrosis is not associated with BOS. In general, reestablishment of pretransplant lung populations in the allograft seems to have a protective effect against BOS, whereas de novo acquisition of microbial populations often belonging to the same genera may increase the risk of BOS."	
37150211		The Brazilian journal of infectious diseases : an official publication of the Brazilian Society of Infectious Diseases	Can the data of microbiome be used to predict the presence of Burkholderia spp in pulmonary microbiota of cystic fibrosis patients?		
24478471		Journal of clinical microbiology	Clinical insights from metagenomic analysis of sputum samples from patients with cystic fibrosis.	"As DNA sequencing becomes faster and cheaper, genomics-based approaches are being explored for their use in personalized diagnoses and treatments. Here, we provide a proof of principle for disease monitoring using personal metagenomic sequencing and traditional clinical microbiology by focusing on three adults with cystic fibrosis (CF). The CF lung is a dynamic environment that hosts a complex ecosystem composed of bacteria, viruses, and fungi that can vary in space and time. Not surprisingly, the microbiome data from the induced sputum samples we collected revealed a significant amount of species diversity not seen in routine clinical laboratory cultures. The relative abundances of several species changed as clinical treatment was altered, enabling the identification of the climax and attack communities that were proposed in an earlier work. All patient microbiomes encoded a diversity of mechanisms to resist antibiotics, consistent with the characteristics of multidrug-resistant microbial communities that are commonly observed in CF patients. The metabolic potentials of these communities differed by the health status and recovery route of each patient. Thus, this pilot study provides an example of how metagenomic data might be used with clinical assessments for the development of treatments tailored to individual patients."	
34674574		"The Annals of otology, rhinology, and laryngology"	Effects of Tham Nasal Alkalinization on Airway Microbial Communities: A Pilot Study in Non-CF and CF Adults.	"In cystic fibrosis (CF), loss of CFTR-mediated bicarbonate secretion reduces the airway surface liquid (ASL) pH causing airway host defense defects. Aerosolized sodium bicarbonate can reverse these defects, but its effects are short-lived. Aerosolized tromethamine (THAM) also raises the ASL pH but its effects are much longer lasting. In this pilot study, we tested the hypothesis that nasally administered THAM would alter the nasal bacterial composition in adults with and without CF. Subjects (n = 32 total) received intranasally administered normal saline or THAM followed by a wash out period prior to receiving the other treatment. Nasal bacterial cultures were obtained prior to and after each treatment period. At baseline, nasal swab bacterial counts were similar between non-CF and CF subjects, but CF subjects had reduced microbial diversity. Both nasal saline and THAM were well-tolerated. In non-CF subjects, nasal airway alkalinization decreased both the total bacterial density and the gram-positive bacterial species recovered. In both non-CF and CF subjects, THAM decreased the amount of  detected, but increased the amount of  recovered on nasal swabs. A reduction in  nasal colonization was also found in subjects who grew . This study shows that aerosolized THAM is safe and well-tolerated and that nasal airway alkalinization alters the composition of mucosal bacterial communities. NCT00928135 (https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT00928135)."	
33031374		PloS one	Toll like Receptor signalling by Prevotella histicola activates alternative NF-κB signalling in Cystic Fibrosis bronchial epithelial cells compared to P. aeruginosa.	"Cystic Fibrosis (CF), caused by mutations affecting the CFTR gene, is characterised by viscid secretions in multiple organ systems. CF airways contain thick mucus, creating a gradient of hypoxia, which promotes the establishment of polymicrobial infection. Such inflammation predisposes to further infection, a self-perpetuating cycle in mediated by NF-κB. Anaerobic Gram-negative Prevotella spp. are found in sputum from healthy volunteers and CF patients and in CF lungs correlate with reduced levels of inflammation. Prevotella histicola (P. histicola) can suppress murine lung inflammation, however, no studies have examined the role of P. histicola in modulating infection and inflammation in the CF airways. We investigated innate immune signalling and NF-kB activation in CF epithelial cells CFBE41o- in response to clinical stains of P. histicola and Pseudomonas aeruginosa (P. aeruginosa). Toll-Like Receptor (TLR) expressing HEK-293 cells and siRNA assays for TLRs and IKKα were used to confirm signalling pathways. We show that P. histicola infection activated the alternative NF-kB signalling pathway in CF bronchial epithelial cells inducing HIF-1α protein. TLR5 signalling was responsible for the induction of the alternative NF-kB pathway through phosphorylation of IKKα. The induction of transcription factor HIF-1α was inversely associated with the induction of the alternative NF-kB pathway and knockdown of IKKα partially restored canonical NF-kB activation in response to P. histicola. This study demonstrates that different bacterial species in the respiratory microbiome can contribute differently to inflammation, either by activating inflammatory cascades (P. aeruginosa) or by muting the inflammatory response by modulating similar or related pathways (P. histicola). Further work is required to assess the complex interactions of the lung microbiome in response to mixed bacterial infections and their effects in people with CF."	
28982777		The European respiratory journal	"{'i': 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa', '#text': 'Chronic but not intermittent infection with  is associated with global changes of the lung microbiome in cystic fibrosis.'}"		
27622700		The Journal of pediatrics	Advances in Gut Microbiome Research and Relevance to Pediatric Diseases.		
27374622		Paediatric respiratory reviews	Severe Achromobacter xylosoxidans infection and loss of sputum bacterial diversity in an adult patient with cystic fibrosis.	"Achromobacter spp. are emerging pathogens in the lungs of patients with cystic fibrosis. We report the case of an adult patient with cystic fibrosis and chronic A. xylosoxidans infection who experienced rapid, progressive clinical deterioration. Metagenomic analysis of the sputum revealed that the airway microbiota was almost entirely dominated by A. xylosoxidans. We review the impact of this organism on lung function and the airway microbiome in cystic fibrosis, and discuss the potential for cross-infection between patients."	
23543647		The European respiratory journal	A molecular comparison of microbial communities in bronchiectasis and cystic fibrosis.		
32385294		Nature communications	Bioorthogonal non-canonical amino acid tagging reveals translationally active subpopulations of the cystic fibrosis lung microbiota.	"Culture-independent studies of cystic fibrosis lung microbiota have provided few mechanistic insights into the polymicrobial basis of disease. Deciphering the specific contributions of individual taxa to CF pathogenesis requires comprehensive understanding of their ecophysiology at the site of infection. We hypothesize that only a subset of CF microbiota are translationally active and that these activities vary between subjects. Here, we apply bioorthogonal non-canonical amino acid tagging (BONCAT) to visualize and quantify bacterial translational activity in expectorated sputum. We report that the percentage of BONCAT-labeled (i.e. active) bacterial cells varies substantially between subjects (6-56%). We use fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) and genomic sequencing to assign taxonomy to BONCAT-labeled cells. While many abundant taxa are indeed active, most bacterial species detected by conventional molecular profiling show a mixed population of both BONCAT-labeled and unlabeled cells, suggesting heterogeneous growth rates in sputum. Differentiating translationally active subpopulations adds to our evolving understanding of CF lung disease and may help guide antibiotic therapies targeting bacteria most likely to be susceptible."	
22865623		American journal of respiratory cell and molecular biology	Phenazine content in the cystic fibrosis respiratory tract negatively correlates with lung function and microbial complexity.	"Although much is known about how virulence factors affect pathogens and host tissues in vitro, far less is understood about their dynamics in vivo. As a step toward characterizing the chemistry of infected environments, we measured phenazine abundance in the lungs of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). Phenazines are redox-active small molecules produced by Pseudomonas aeruginosa that damage host epithelia, curb the growth of competing organisms, and play physiologically important roles in the cells that produce them. Here, we quantify phenazines within expectorated sputum, characterize the P. aeruginosa populations responsible for phenazine production, and assess their relationship to CF lung microflora. Chemical analyses of expectorated sputum showed that the concentrations of two phenazines, namely, pyocyanin (PYO) and phenazine-1-carboxylic acid (PCA), were negatively correlated (ρ = -0.68 and -0.57, respectively) with lung function. Furthermore, the highest phenazine concentrations were found in patients whose pulmonary function showed the greatest rates of decline. The constituent P. aeruginosa populations within each patient showed diverse capacities for phenazine production. Early during infection, individual isolates produced more PYO than later during infection. However, total PYO concentrations in sputum at any given stage correlated well with the average production by the total P. aeruginosa population. Finally, bacterial community complexity was negatively correlated with phenazine concentrations and declines in lung function, suggesting a link to the refinement of the overall microbial population. Together, these data demonstrate that phenazines negatively correlate with CF disease states in ways that were previously unknown, and underscore the importance of defining in vivo environmental parameters to better predict clinical outcomes of infections."	
37800950		Microbiology spectrum	"{'i': 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa', '#text': 'An oral commensal attenuates -induced airway inflammation and modulates nitrite flux in respiratory epithelium.'}"	"Respiratory infections are a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in people with cystic fibrosis (CF). These infections are polymicrobial in nature with overt pathogens and other colonizing microbes present. Microbiome data have indicated that the presence of oral commensal bacteria in the lungs is correlated with improved outcomes. We hypothesize that one oral commensal,  inhibits CF pathogens and modulates the host immune response. One major CF pathogen is , a Gram-negative, opportunistic bacterium with intrinsic drug resistance and an arsenal of virulence factors. We have previously shown that  inhibits  in a nitrite-dependent manner through the production of reactive nitrogen intermediates. In this study, we demonstrate that while this mechanism is evident in a cell culture model of the CF airway, an alternative mechanism by which  may improve outcomes for people with CF is through immunomodulation."	
27908697		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Clostridium difficile carriage in adult cystic fibrosis (CF); implications for patients with CF and the potential for transmission of nosocomial infection.	"Clostridium difficile is an anaerobic Gram-positive, spore-forming, toxin-producing bacillus transmitted among humans through the faecal-oral route. Despite increasing carriage rates and the presence of C. difficile toxin in stool, patients with CF rarely appear to develop typical manifestations of C. difficile infection (CDI). In this study, we examined the carriage, toxin production, ribotype distribution and antibiotic susceptibility of C. difficile in a cohort of 60 adult patients with CF who were pre-lung transplant. C. difficile was detected in 50% (30/60) of patients with CF by culturing for the bacteria. C. difficile toxin was detected in 63% (19/30) of C. difficile-positive stool samples. All toxin-positive stool samples contained toxigenic C. difficile strains harbouring toxin genes, tcdA and tcdB. Despite the presence of C. difficile and its toxin in patient stool, no acute gastrointestinal symptoms were reported. Ribotyping of C. difficile strains revealed 16 distinct ribotypes (RT), 11 of which are known to be disease-causing including the hyper-virulent RT078. Additionally, strains RT002, RT014, and RT015, which are common in non-CF nosocomial infection were described. All strains were susceptible to vancomycin, metronidazole, fusidic acid and rifampicin. No correlation was observed between carriage of C. difficile or any characteristics of isolated strains and any recorded clinical parameters or treatment received. We demonstrate a high prevalence of hypervirulent, toxigenic strains of C. difficile in asymptomatic patients with CF. This highlights the potential role of asymptomatic patients with CF in nosocomial transmission of C. difficile."	
26774156		International journal of antimicrobial agents	Production of extended-spectrum β-lactamases and the potential indirect pathogenic role of Prevotella isolates from the cystic fibrosis respiratory microbiota.	"Extended-spectrum β-lactamase (ESBL) production and the prevalence of the β-lactamase-encoding gene blaTEM were determined in Prevotella isolates (n=50) cultured from the respiratory tract of adults and young people with cystic fibrosis (CF). Time-kill studies were used to investigate the concept of passive antibiotic resistance and to ascertain whether a β-lactamase-positive Prevotella isolate can protect a recognised CF pathogen from the action of ceftazidime in vitro. The results indicated that approximately three-quarters (38/50; 76%) of Prevotella isolates produced ESBLs. Isolates positive for ESBL production had higher minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of β-lactam antibiotics compared with isolates negative for production of ESBLs (P<0.001). The blaTEM gene was detected more frequently in CF Prevotella isolates from paediatric patients compared with isolates from adults (P=0.002), with sequence analysis demonstrating that 21/22 (95%) partial blaTEM genes detected were identical to blaTEM-116. Furthermore, a β-lactamase-positive Prevotella isolate protected Pseudomonas aeruginosa from the antimicrobial effects of ceftazidime (P=0.03). Prevotella isolated from the CF respiratory microbiota produce ESBLs and may influence the pathogenesis of chronic lung infection via indirect methods, including shielding recognised pathogens from the action of ceftazidime."	
24816901		European journal of clinical microbiology & infectious diseases : official publication of the European Society of Clinical Microbiology	Aspirated bile: a major host trigger modulating respiratory pathogen colonisation in cystic fibrosis patients.	"Chronic respiratory infections are a leading global cause of morbidity and mortality. However, the molecular triggers that cause respiratory pathogens to adopt persistent and often untreatable lifestyles during infection remain largely uncharacterised. Recently, bile aspiration caused by gastro-oesophageal reflux (GOR) has emerged as a significant complication associated with respiratory disease, and cystic fibrosis (CF) in particular. Based on our previous finding that the physiological concentrations of bile influence respiratory pathogens towards a chronic lifestyle in vitro, we investigated the impact of bile aspiration on the lung microbiome of respiratory patients. Sputum samples (n = 25) obtained from a cohort of paediatric CF patients were profiled for the presence of bile acids using high-resolution liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS). Pyrosequencing was performed on a set of ten DNA samples that were isolated from bile aspirating (n = 5) and non-bile aspirating (n = 5) patients. Both denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and pyrosequencing revealed significantly reduced biodiversity and richness in the sputum samples from bile aspirating patients when compared with non-aspirating patients. Families and genera associated with the pervasive CF microbiome dominated aspirating patients, while bacteria associated with the healthy lung were most abundant in non-aspirating patients. Bile aspiration linked to GOR is emerging as a major host trigger of chronic bacterial infections. The markedly reduced biodiversity and increased colonisation by dominant proteobacterial CF-associated pathogens observed in the sputum of bile aspirating patients suggest that bile may play a major role in disease progression in CF and other respiratory diseases."	
25898134		PloS one	Changes in cystic fibrosis airway microbial community associated with a severe decline in lung function.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a genetic disease resulting in chronic polymicrobial infections of the airways and progressive decline in lung function. To gain insight into the underlying causes of severe lung diseases, we aimed at comparing the airway microbiota detected in sputum of CF patients with stable lung function (S) versus those with a substantial decline in lung function (SD). Microbiota composition was investigated by using culture-based and culture-independent methods, and by performing multivariate and statistical analyses. Culture-based methods identified some microbial species associated with a worse lung function, i.e. Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Rothia mucilaginosa, Streptococcus pneumoniae and Candida albicans, but only the presence of S. pneumoniae and R. mucilaginosa was found to be associated with increased severe decline in forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1). Terminal-Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis revealed a higher bacterial diversity than that detected by culture-based methods. Molecular signatures with a statistically significant odds ratio for SD status were detected, and classified as Pseudomonas, Burkholderia and Shewanella, while for other Terminal Restriction Fragments (T-RFs) no species assignation was achieved. The analysis of T-RFLP data using ecological biodiversity indices showed reduced Evenness in SD patients compared to S ones, suggesting an impaired ecology of the bacterial community in SD patients. Statistically significant differences of the ecological biodiversity indices among the three sub-groups of FEV1 (normal/mild vs moderate vs severe) were also found, suggesting that the patients with moderate lung disease experienced changes in the airway assembly of taxa. Overall, changes in CF airway microbial community associated with a severe lung function decline were detected, allowing us to define some discriminatory species as well as some discriminatory T-RFs that represent good candidates for the development of predictive biomarkers of substantial decline in lung function."	
33123104		Frontiers in microbiology	Microbiomic Analysis on Low Abundant Respiratory Biomass Samples; Improved Recovery of Microbial DNA From Bronchoalveolar Lavage Fluid.	"In recent years the study of the commensal microbiota is driving a remarkable paradigm shift in our understanding of human physiology. However, intrinsic technical difficulties associated with investigating the Microbiomics of some body niches are hampering the development of new knowledge. This is particularly the case when investigating the functional role played by the human microbiota in modulating the physiology of key organ systems. A major hurdle in investigating specific Microbiome communities is linked to low bacterial density and susceptibility to bias caused by environmental contamination. To prevent such inaccuracies due to background processing noise, harmonized tools for Microbiomic and bioinformatics practices have been recommended globally. The fact that the impact of this undesirable variability is negatively correlated with the DNA concentration in the sample highlights the necessity to improve existing DNA isolation protocols. In this report, we developed and tested a protocol to more efficiently recover bacterial DNA from low volumes of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid obtained from infants and adults. We have compared the efficiency of the described method with that of a commercially available kit for microbiome analysis in body fluids. We show that this new methodological approach performs better in terms of extraction efficiency. As opposed to commercial kits, the DNA extracts obtained with this new protocol were clearly distinguishable from the negative extraction controls in terms of 16S copy number and Microbiome community profiles. Altogether, we described a cost-efficient protocol that can facilitate microbiome research in low-biomass human niches."	
25972422		Journal of clinical microbiology	Assessing Airway Microbiota in Cystic Fibrosis: What More Should Be Done?	"The use of culture-independent methods has deepened our appreciation of the complexity of the bacterial communities that typically reside in the airways of persons with cystic fibrosis (CF). New insights into how changes in the structure of these communities relate to lung disease progression will likely raise expectations for more in-depth microbiologic analysis of CF respiratory specimens. An article in this issue of the Journal of Clinical Microbiology (W. G. Flight, A. Smith, C. Paisey, J. R. Marchesi, M. J. Bull, P. J. Norville, K. J. Mutton, A. K. Webb, R. J. Bright-Thomas, A. M. Jones, and E. Mahenthiralingam, J Clin Microbiol 53:2022-2029, 2015, http://dx.doi.org/10.1128/JCM.00432-15) describes the application of a culture-independent approach to the assessment of CF airway microbiota."	
25725986		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Impact of storage conditions on metabolite profiles of sputum samples from persons with cystic fibrosis.	"Although recent studies have begun to elucidate how airway microbial community structure relates to lung disease in cystic fibrosis (CF), microbial community activity and the host's response to changes in this activity are poorly understood. Metabolomic profiling provides a means to investigate microbial activity and human cell activity within diseased airways. However, variables in sample storage and shipping likely affect downstream analyses and standards for sample handling are lacking. We assessed the impact of sample storage conditions on liquid chromatography mass spectrometry analysis of CF sputum samples. Significant changes in global metabolomic profiles occurred in samples stored at room temperature or at 4°C for longer than one day. Untargeted metabolomic profiles were stable in sputum samples stored at -20°C or -80°C for at least 28 days. Quorum sensing molecules and phenazines, both considered important to the in vivo activity of Pseudomonas during airway infection, were detected after sample storage at room temperature for five days. Sputum samples can be stored at -20°C or -80°C for weeks with minimal effect on global metabolomic profiles. This observation provides guidance in designing metabolomic studies that have the potential to deepen our understanding of how airway microbial communities impact lung disease progression in CF."	
38520837		Microbiological research	Airway commensal bacteria in cystic fibrosis inhibit the growth of P. aeruginosa via a released metabolite.	"In cystic fibrosis (CF), Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection plays a critical role in disease progression. Although multiple studies suggest that airway commensals might be able to interfere with pathogenic bacteria, the role of the distinct commensals in the polymicrobial lung infections is largely unknown. In this study, we aimed to identify airway commensal bacteria that may inhibit the growth of P. aeruginosa. Through a screening study with more than 80 CF commensal strains across 21 species, more than 30 commensal strains from various species have been identified to be able to inhibit the growth of P. aeruginosa. The underlying mechanisms were investigated via genomic, metabolic and functional analysis, revealing that the inhibitory commensals may affect the growth of P. aeruginosa by releasing a large amount of acetic acid. The data provide information about the distinct roles of airway commensals and provide insights into novel strategies for controlling airway infections."	
24178246	not sure - has SRA	Clinical infectious diseases : an official publication of the Infectious Diseases Society of America	Escherichia coli dysbiosis correlates with gastrointestinal dysfunction in children with cystic fibrosis.	"Cystic fibrosis gastrointestinal disease includes nutrient malabsorption and intestinal inflammation. We show that the abundances of Escherichia coli in fecal microbiota were significantly higher in young children with cystic fibrosis than in controls and correlated with fecal measures of nutrient malabsorption and inflammation, suggesting that E. coli could contribute to cystic fibrosis gastrointestinal dysfunction."	
26551319		Journal of pediatric gastroenterology and nutrition	Decreased Expression of Enterocyte Nutrient Assimilation Genes and Proteins in the Small Intestine of Cystic Fibrosis Mouse.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) has major effects on the intestinal tract with potential consequences on nutrition, but these are not fully understood. I investigated the possibility of altered enterocyte maturation in CF, as suggested by decreased enterocyte nutrient assimilation gene expression in published transcriptome analysis of the small intestine of CF mouse. In CF and wild-type (WT) mice, enterocyte gene/protein expression was analyzed by quantitative realtime polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), enzyme histochemistry, immunohistochemistry, and Western blot. One group of mice was maintained on a control liquid diet; to manipulate the gut microbiota, a second group was treated with oral antibiotics; to improve hydration of the gut lumen, a third group was given a laxative drinking solution. On the control diet in the CF intestine, there were decreased levels (67%-85% reduction of WT levels) of enterocyte genes/proteins. Antibiotics did not normalize the expression of enterocyte markers in the CF mouse. In contrast, the laxative treatment of CF mice significantly increased expression to near WT levels. These studies suggest that the environment of the CF intestinal lumen plays a role in reduced maturation of enterocytes. Because changing the gut lumen environment can affect enterocyte maturation, this is not a cell-autonomous effect of loss of CF transmembrane conductance regulator."	
27991430		Journal of breath research	Bacteria in the airways of patients with cystic fibrosis are genetically capable of producing VOCs in breath.	"Breath contains hundreds of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), the composition of which is altered in a wide variety of diseases. Bacteria are implicated in the formation of VOCs, but the biochemical mechanisms that lead to the formation of breath VOCs remain largely hypothetical. We hypothesized that bacterial DNA fragments in sputum of CF patients could be sequenced to identify whether the bacteria present were capable of producing VOCs found in the breath of these patients. Breath from seven patients with cystic fibrosis was sampled and analyzed by gas-chromatography and mass-spectrometry. Sputum samples were also collected and microbial DNA was isolated. Metagenomic sequencing was performed and the DNA fragments were compared to a reference database with genes that are linked to the metabolism of acetaldehyde, ethanol and methanol in the KEGG database. Bacteria in the genera Escherichia, Lactococcus, Pseudomonas, Rothia and Streptococcus were found to have the genetic potential to produce acetaldehyde and ethanol. Only DNA sequences from Lactococcus were implicated in the formation of acetaldehyde from acetate through aldehyde dehydrogenase family 9 member A1 (K00149). Escherichia was found to be genetically capable of producing ethanol in all patients, whilst there was considerable heterogeneity between patients for the other genera. The ethanol concentration in breath positively correlated with the amount of Escherichia found in sputum (Spearman rho  =  0.85,  P  =  0.015). Rothia showed the most versatile genetic potential for producing methanol. To conclude, bacterial DNA fragments in sputum of CF patients can be linked to enzymes implicated in the production of ethanol, acetaldehyde and methanol, which are VOCs that are predictive of respiratory tract colonization and/or infection. This supports that the lung microbiome can produce VOCs directly."	
27143104		Scientific reports	Disrupted progression of the intestinal microbiota with age in children with cystic fibrosis.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a genetic disorder that leads to formation of thick epithelial secretions in affected organs. Chronic microbial infections associated with thick mucus secretions are the hallmarks of lung disease in CF. Despite similar conditions existing in the gastrointestinal tract, it is much less studied. We therefore examined the microbial communities within the gastrointestinal tract of children with and without CF (either pancreatic sufficient or insufficient) across a range of childhood ages (0.87-17 years). We observed a substantial reduction in the richness and diversity of gut bacteria associated with CF from early childhood (2 years) until late adolescence (17 years). A number of bacteria that establish themselves in the gut of healthy children were unable to do so in children with CF. In contrast, a few bacteria dominated the gut microbiota in children with CF and are unlikely to be beneficial for the metabolic function of the gut. A functioning pancreas (pancreatic sufficient) under a CF lifestyle showed little effect on microbial communities. Our results argue that any attempts to rectify the loss of bacterial diversity and provide normal bacterial function in the gut of CF patients should be conducted no later than early childhood."	
18682840		PloS one	Molecular detection of multiple emerging pathogens in sputa from cystic fibrosis patients.	"There is strong evidence that culture-based methods detect only a small proportion of bacteria present in the respiratory tracts of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. Standard microbiological culture and phenotypic identification of bacteria in sputa from CF patients have been compared to molecular methods by the use of 16S rDNA amplification, cloning and sequencing. Twenty-five sputa from CF patients were cultured that yield 33 isolates (13 species) known to be pathogens during CF. For molecular cloning, 760 clones were sequenced (7.2+/-3.9 species/sputum), and 53 different bacterial species were identified including 16 species of anaerobes (30%). Discrepancies between culture and molecular data were numerous and demonstrate that accurate identification remains challenging. New or emerging bacteria not or rarely reported in CF patients were detected including Dolosigranulum pigrum, Dialister pneumosintes, and Inquilinus limosus. Our results demonstrate the complex microbial community in sputa from CF patients, especially anaerobic bacteria that are probably an underestimated cause of CF lung pathology. Metagenomic analysis is urgently needed to better understand those complex communities in CF pulmonary infections."	
24972893		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	"Regarding the article entitled ""Iron supplementation does not worsen respiratory health or alter the sputum microbiome in cystic fibrosis""."		
34349133		NPJ biofilms and microbiomes	The role of Psl in the failure to eradicate Pseudomonas aeruginosa biofilms in children with cystic fibrosis.	"The exopolysaccharide Psl contributes to biofilm structure and antibiotic tolerance and may play a role in the failure to eradicate Pseudomonas aeruginosa from cystic fibrosis (CF) airways. The study objective was to determine whether there were any differences in Psl in P. aeruginosa isolates that were successfully eradicated compared to those that persisted, despite inhaled tobramycin treatment, in children with CF. Initial P. aeruginosa isolates were collected from children with CF undergoing eradication treatment, grown as biofilms and labeled with 3 anti-Psl monoclonal antibodies (Cam003/Psl0096, WapR001, WapR016) before confocal microscopy visualization. When grown as biofilms, P. aeruginosa isolates from children who failed antibiotic eradication therapy, had significantly increased Psl0096 binding compared to isolates from those who cleared P. aeruginosa. This was confirmed in P. aeruginosa isolates from the SickKids Eradication Cohort as well as the Early Pseudomonas Infection Control (EPIC) trial. Increased anti-Psl antibody binding was associated with bacterial aggregation and tobramycin tolerance. The biofilm matrix represents a potential therapeutic target to improve P. aeruginosa eradication treatment."	
22707521		Thorax	Long-term cultivation-independent microbial diversity analysis demonstrates that bacterial communities infecting the adult cystic fibrosis lung show stability and resilience.	"Culture-independent analysis of the respiratory secretions of people with cystic fibrosis (CF) has identified many bacterial species not previously detected using culture in this context. However, little is known about their clinical significance or persistence in CF airways. The authors characterised the viable bacterial communities in the sputum collected from 14 patients at monthly intervals over 1 year using a molecular community profiling technique-terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism. Clinical characteristics were also collected, including lung function and medications. Ecological community measures were determined for each sample. Microbial community change over time within subjects was defined using ecological analytical tools, and these measures were compared between subjects and to clinical features. Bacterial communities were stable within subjects over time but varied between subjects, despite similarities in clinical course. Antibiotic therapy temporarily perturbed these communities which generally returned to pretreatment configurations within 1 month. Species usually considered CF pathogens and those not previously regarded as such exhibited similar patterns of persistence. Less diverse sputum bacterial communities were correlated to lung disease severity and relative abundance of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Whilst not true in all cases, the microbial communities that chronically infect the airways of patients with CF can vary little over a year despite antibiotic perturbation. The species present tended to vary more between than within subjects, suggesting that each CF airway infection is unique, with relatively stable and resilient bacterial communities. The inverse relationship between community richness and disease severity is similar to findings reported in other mucosal infections."	
22872870		Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Direct sampling of cystic fibrosis lungs indicates that DNA-based analyses of upper-airway specimens can misrepresent lung microbiota.	"Recent work using culture-independent methods suggests that the lungs of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients harbor a vast array of bacteria not conventionally implicated in CF lung disease. However, sampling lung secretions in living subjects requires that expectorated specimens or collection devices pass through the oropharynx. Thus, contamination could confound results. Here, we compared culture-independent analyses of throat and sputum specimens to samples directly obtained from the lungs at the time of transplantation. We found that CF lungs with advanced disease contained relatively homogenous populations of typical CF pathogens. In contrast, upper-airway specimens from the same subjects contained higher levels of microbial diversity and organisms not typically considered CF pathogens. Furthermore, sputum exhibited day-to-day variation in the abundance of nontypical organisms, even in the absence of clinical changes. These findings suggest that oropharyngeal contamination could limit the accuracy of DNA-based measurements on upper-airway specimens. This work highlights the importance of sampling procedures for microbiome studies and suggests that methods that account for contamination are needed when DNA-based methods are used on clinical specimens."	
38934598		mSystems	An integrated metaproteomics workflow for studying host-microbe dynamics in bronchoalveolar lavage samples applied to cystic fibrosis disease.	"Airway microbiota are known to contribute to lung diseases, such as cystic fibrosis (CF), but their contributions to pathogenesis are still unclear. To improve our understanding of host-microbe interactions, we have developed an integrated analytical and bioinformatic mass spectrometry (MS)-based metaproteomics workflow to analyze clinical bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) samples from people with airway disease. Proteins from BAL cellular pellets were processed and pooled together in groups categorized by disease status (CF vs. non-CF) and bacterial diversity, based on previously performed small subunit rRNA sequencing data. Proteins from each pooled sample group were digested and subjected to liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). MS/MS spectra were matched to human and bacterial peptide sequences leveraging a bioinformatic workflow using a metagenomics-guided protein sequence database and rigorous evaluation. Label-free quantification revealed differentially abundant human peptides from proteins with known roles in CF, like neutrophil elastase and collagenase, and proteins with lesser-known roles in CF, including apolipoproteins. Differentially abundant bacterial peptides were identified from known CF pathogens (e.g., ), as well as other taxa with potentially novel roles in CF. We used this host-microbe peptide panel for targeted parallel-reaction monitoring validation, demonstrating for the first time an MS-based assay effective for quantifying host-microbe protein dynamics within BAL cells from individual CF patients. Our integrated bioinformatic and analytical workflow combining discovery, verification, and validation should prove useful for diverse studies to characterize microbial contributors in airway diseases. Furthermore, we describe a promising preliminary panel of differentially abundant microbe and host peptide sequences for further study as potential markers of host-microbe relationships in CF disease pathogenesis.IMPORTANCEIdentifying microbial pathogenic contributors and dysregulated human responses in airway disease, such as CF, is critical to understanding disease progression and developing more effective treatments. To this end, characterizing the proteins expressed from bacterial microbes and human host cells during disease progression can provide valuable new insights. We describe here a new method to confidently detect and monitor abundance changes of both microbe and host proteins from challenging BAL samples commonly collected from CF patients. Our method uses both state-of-the art mass spectrometry-based instrumentation to detect proteins present in these samples and customized bioinformatic software tools to analyze the data and characterize detected proteins and their association with CF. We demonstrate the use of this method to characterize microbe and host proteins from individual BAL samples, paving the way for a new approach to understand molecular contributors to CF and other diseases of the airway."	
30249710		Journal of bacteriology	Refining the Application of Microbial Lipids as Tracers of Staphylococcus aureus Growth Rates in Cystic Fibrosis Sputum.	"Chronic lung infections in cystic fibrosis (CF) could be treated more effectively if the effects of antimicrobials on pathogens  were known. Here, we compared changes in the microbial community composition and pathogen growth rates in longitudinal studies of seven pediatric CF patients undergoing intravenous antibiotic administration during pulmonary exacerbations. The microbial community composition was determined by counting rRNA with NanoString DNA analysis, and growth rates were obtained by incubating CF sputum with heavy water and tracing incorporation of deuterium into two branched-chain (""anteiso"") fatty acids (-C and -C) using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC/MS). Prior to this study, both lipids were thought to be specific for ; hence, their isotopic enrichment was interpreted as a growth proxy for  Our experiments revealed, however, that  is also a relevant microbial producer of -C fatty acid in some CF patients; thus, deuterium incorporation into these lipids is better interpreted as a more general pathogen growth rate proxy. Even accounting for a small nonmicrobial background source detected in some patient samples, -C fatty acid still appears to be a relatively robust proxy for CF pathogens, revealing a median generation time of ∼1.5 days, similar to prior observations. Contrary to our expectation, pathogen growth rates remained relatively stable throughout exacerbation treatment. We suggest two straightforward ""best practices"" for application of stable-isotope probing to CF sputum metabolites: (i) parallel determination of microbial community composition in CF sputum using culture-independent tools and (ii) assessing background levels of the diagnostic metabolite. In chronic lung infections, populations of microbial pathogens change and mature in ways that are often unknown, which makes it challenging to identify appropriate treatment options. A promising tool to better understand the physiology of microorganisms in a patient is stable-isotope probing, which we previously developed to estimate the growth rates of  in cystic fibrosis (CF) sputum. Here, we tracked microbial communities in a cohort of CF patients and found that anteiso fatty acids can also originate from other sources in CF sputum. This awareness led us to develop a new workflow for the application of stable-isotope probing in this context, improving our ability to estimate pathogen generation times in clinical samples."	
23642186		BMC microbiology	"Phenotypic and genotypic properties of Microbacterium yannicii, a recently described multidrug resistant bacterium isolated from a lung transplanted patient with cystic fibrosis in France."	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) lung microbiota consists of diverse species which are pathogens or opportunists or have unknown pathogenicity. Here we report the full characterization of a recently described multidrug resistant bacterium, Microbacterium yannicii, isolated from a CF patient who previously underwent lung transplantation. Our strain PS01 (CSUR-P191) is an aerobic, rod shaped, non-motile, yellow pigmented, gram positive, oxidase negative and catalase positive bacterial isolate. Full length 16S rRNA gene sequence showed 98.8% similarity with Microbacterium yannicii G72T type strain, which was previously isolated from Arabidopsis thaliana. The genome size is 3.95Mb, with an average G+C content of 69.5%. In silico DNA-DNA hybridization analysis between our Microbacterium yannicii PS01isolate in comparison with Microbacterium testaceum StLB037 and Microbacterium laevaniformans OR221 genomes revealed very weak relationship with only 28% and 25% genome coverage, respectively. Our strain, as compared to the type strain, was resistant to erythromycin because of the presence of a new erm 43 gene encoding a 23S rRNA N-6-methyltransferase in its genome which was not detected in the reference strain. Interestingly, our patient received azithromycin 250 mg daily for bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome for more than one year before the isolation of this bacterium. Although significance of isolating this bacterium remains uncertain in terms of clinical evolution, this bacterium could be considered as an opportunistic human pathogen as previously reported for other species in this genus, especially in immunocompromised patients."	
27322443		EBioMedicine	"Microbiome R&D and Business Collaboration Forum, April 11-12, 2016, London, UK."		
27269884		Clinical microbiology and infection : the official publication of the European Society of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases	"Skin microbiota is the main reservoir of Roseomonas mucosa, an emerging opportunistic pathogen so far assumed to be environmental."	"Roseomonas spp. are increasingly involved in human infectious diseases. The environmental source for infection is generally admitted in published cases owing to the origin of most Roseomonas species and to their affiliation to the family Acetobacteraceae in Rhodospirillales, which mainly groups environmental bacteria. For a better delineation of Roseomonas habitat and infectious reservoir, we related phenotype, phylotype (16S rRNA gene), genomotype (pulsed-field gel electrophoresis) and origin of 33 strains isolated from humans, hospital environment and natural environment. Genetic and metagenomic databases were also surveyed. The population structure of the genus showed clades associated with humans, whereas others grouped environmental strains only. Roseomonas mucosa is the main human-associated species and the study supported the idea that opportunistic infections due to this species are related to the patient skin microbiota rather than to the environment. In contrast, some strains belonging to other species isolated from patients with cystic fibrosis were related to environmental clades, suggesting an exogenous source for patient colonization. Accurate knowledge about the reservoirs of opportunistic pathogens that have long been considered of environmental origin is still needed and would be helpful to improve infection control and epidemiological survey of emerging human pathogens."	
38975276		Biofilm	"{'i': ['Prevotella', 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa'], '#text': 'Antibiofilm activity of  species from the cystic fibrosis lung microbiota against .'}"	"It is increasingly recognized that interspecies interactions may modulate the pathogenicity of  during chronic lung infections. Nevertheless, while the interaction between  and pathogenic microorganisms co-infecting the lungs has been widely investigated, little is known about the influence of other members of the lung microbiota on the infection process. In this study, we focused on investigating the impact of  species isolated from the sputum of people with cystic fibrosis (pwCF) on biofilm formation and virulence factor production by . Screening of a representative collection of  species recovered from clinical samples showed that several members of this genus (8 out 10 isolates) were able to significantly reduce biofilm formation of  PAO1, without impact on growth. Among the tested isolates, the strongest biofilm-inhibitory activity was observed for  and , which caused a reduction of up to 90% in the total biofilm biomass of several  isolates from pwCF. In addition, a strain-specific effect of  on the ability of  to produce proteases and pyocyanin was observed, with significant alterations in the levels of these virulence factors detected in LasR mutant strains. Overall, these results suggest that non-pathogenic bacteria from the lung microbiota may regulate pathogenicity traits of , and possibly affect the outcome of chronic lung infections."	
28005284		Biotechnology and bioengineering	Multiplex PNA-fish to detect cystic fibrosis polymicrobial communities.		
22538067		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Gut dysbiosis in cystic fibrosis.		
24535743		"Journal of microbiology (Seoul, Korea)"	Use of denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography (DHPLC) to characterize the bacterial and fungal airway microbiota of cystic fibrosis patients.	"The aim of this study was to evaluate the use of denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography (DHPLC) to characterize cystic fibrosis (CF) airway microbiota including both bacteria and fungi. DHPLC conditions were first optimized using a mixture of V6, V7 and V8 region 16S rRNA gene PCR amplicons from 18 bacterial species commonly found in CF patients. Then, the microbial diversity of 4 sputum samples from 4 CF patients was analyzed using cultural methods, cloning/sequencing (for bacteria only) and DHPLC peak fraction collection/sequencing. DHPLC analysis allowed identifying more bacterial and fungal species than the classical culture methods, including well-recognized pathogens such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Even if a lower number of bacterial Operational Taxonomic Units (OTUs) was identified by DHPLC, it allowed to find OTUs unidentified by cloning/sequencing. The combination of both techniques permitted to correlate the majority of DHPLC peaks to defined OTUs. Finally, although Aspergillus fumigatus detection using DHPLC can still be improved, this technique clearly allowed to identify a higher number of fungal species versus classical culture-based methods. To conclude, DHPLC provided meaningful additional data concerning pathogenic bacteria and fungi as well as fastidious microorganisms present within the CF respiratory tract. DHPLC can be considered as a complementary technique to culture-dependent analyses in routine microbiological laboratories."	
38944785		Advances in gerontology = Uspekhi gerontologii	[Fibrophysematous lung changes and microbiota changes in senile persons.].	"Research on the condition of the lungs in senile people is an urgent task. This is due to the fact that degenerative or age-associated changes in the respiratory system play an important role in the formation of senile asthenia syndrome and a decrease in the age-related viability of the body as a whole. CT-scans of patients aged 80-90 years were analyzed (n=31). Age-associated changes were evaluated: the presence of linear fibrosis, increased pulmonary pattern by the type of reticular (reticular) changes, the presence of gross fibrous reticular changes with cystic cavities and air bullae (by the type of «cellular lung»), as well as the presence of pulmonary emphysema. Most naturally, senile people show changes characteristic of linear pulmonary fibrosis and emphysema. The progression of the process leads to diffuse reticular changes in the interalveolar and intersegmental septa and, in adverse cases, to the formation of gross changes in the type of «cellular lung». Fibro-emphysematous changes are significantly more common in men. A microbiological study of the microbiota of the lower respiratory tract in elderly people was also carried out (n=16). When studying the microbiocenosis of the lower respiratory tract in elderly people, the following data were obtained: resident microflora was found in 71% and clinically significant microorganisms were found in 29%."	
27342262		The Lancet. Respiratory medicine	Early life nasal microbiota in infants with cystic fibrosis.		
21152087		PloS one	Reliability of quantitative real-time PCR for bacterial detection in cystic fibrosis airway specimens.	"The cystic fibrosis (CF) airway microbiome is complex; polymicrobial infections are common, and the presence of fastidious bacteria including anaerobes make culture-based diagnosis challenging. Quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) offers a culture-independent method for bacterial quantification that may improve diagnosis of CF airway infections; however, the reliability of qPCR applied to CF airway specimens is unknown. We sought to determine the reliability of nine specific bacterial qPCR assays (total bacteria, three typical CF pathogens, and five anaerobes) applied to CF airway specimens. Airway and salivary specimens from clinically stable pediatric CF subjects were collected. Quantitative PCR assay repeatability was determined using triplicate reactions. Split-sample measurements were performed to measure variability introduced by DNA extraction. Results from qPCR were compared to standard microbial culture for Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Staphylococcus aureus, and Haemophilus influenzae, common pathogens in CF. We obtained 84 sputa, 47 oropharyngeal and 27 salivary specimens from 16 pediatric subjects with CF. Quantitative PCR detected bacterial DNA in over 97% of specimens. All qPCR assays were highly reproducible at quantities≥10(2) rRNA gene copies/reaction with coefficient of variation less than 20% for over 99% of samples. There was also excellent agreement between samples processed in duplicate. Anaerobic bacteria were highly prevalent and were detected in mean quantities similar to that of typical CF pathogens. Compared to a composite gold standard, qPCR and culture had variable sensitivities for detection of P. aeruginosa, S. aureus and H. influenzae from CF airway samples. By reliably quantifying fastidious airway bacteria, qPCR may improve our understanding of polymicrobial CF lung infections, progression of lung disease and ultimately improve antimicrobial treatments."	
23598051		Trends in microbiology	Interpreting infective microbiota: the importance of an ecological perspective.	"Complex microbiota are being reported increasingly across a range of chronic infections, including those of the cystic fibrosis airways. Such diversity fits poorly into classical models of sterile tissue infections, which generally involve one species, and where microbe-outcome associations usually imply causality. It has been suggested that microbiota at sites of infection could represent pathogenic entities, analogous to individual species. We argue that our ability to identify causality in microbiota-disease associations is, however, inherently confounded. Although particular microbiota may be associated with clinical outcomes, niche characteristics at sites of infection will shape microbiota composition through exerting selective pressures. Here, we suggest that ecological theory can inform clinical understanding."	
22412992		PloS one	Impact of enhanced Staphylococcus DNA extraction on microbial community measures in cystic fibrosis sputum.	"Staphylococcus aureus is a common constituent of the bacterial community inhabiting the airways of persons with cystic fibrosis (CF). Culture-independent studies have shown that this species is often present in relatively high abundance and would therefore be expected to exert a pronounced effect on measures of CF airway bacterial community structure. We investigated the impact of DNA extraction method on pyrosequencing-based measures of Staphylococcus abundance and bacterial community structure in 17 sputum samples from five CF patients. Staphylococcus was detected in fewer samples when DNA was extracted using a standard bacterial lysis method compared to when DNA was extracted using a lysis buffer amended with lysostaphin and lysozyme. The standard lysis method resulted in significantly lower measures of Staphylococcus relative abundance and higher levels of community diversity, richness, and evenness compared to the lysostaphin-lysozyme modified method. Measures of community dynamics in serial sputum samples from the same individual were nevertheless highly concordant between the two DNA extraction methods. These results illustrate the impact of DNA preparation method on measures of Staphylococcus abundance and bacterial community structures in studies of the airways microbiota in CF."	
31690526		Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Isolation of Enterobacteriaceae in airway samples is associated with worse outcome in preschool children with cystic fibrosis.	"Increased abundance of Enterobacteriaceae(EB) in the respiratory microbiome of young CF patients was reported to precede Pseudomonas aeruginosa(PA) colonisation. We explored whether impending PA colonisation can be predicted by growth of EB in routine airway cultures and whether EB contribute to CF lung disease severity. We retrospectively studied the records of 62 children with CF for growth of EB and PA during the first 5 years of life and subsequent best lung function at ages 5-7 and 9-11 years. At least one EB positive month occurred in 36/62 (58%) patients. Median (IQR) age at first EB isolation was 0.4 (0.2-0.8) years. PA isolation before age 5 was more frequent in the EB positive (23/36, 54%) than in EB negative children (10/26, 38%; p = 0.048). EB isolation preceded PA isolation in 19/23 (83%) cases (p = 0.003). Median (IQRf) FEV at age 5 to 7 years was 105% (94-117) in the EB positive group and 108% (102-115) in the EB negative group (p = 0.154). At age 9-11, FEV was lower in EB positive children (99%(88-105) vs 105%(96-110); p = 0.035). Only PA isolation (p = 0.002) before age 5 years was a significant predictor of FEV at age 5-7 years. Both EB isolation (p = 0.033) and PA isolation (p = 0.023) were predictors of the FEV at age 9-11 years. In preschool children with CF, EB were isolated in just over half of the children. In that subgroup PA isolation was more common. Both EB and PA isolation are associated with worse lung function at later age."	
27160743		Antonie van Leeuwenhoek	Examining changes in bacterial abundance in complex communities using next-generation sequencing is enhanced with quantitative PCR.	"Changes in the composition of microbial communities are often examined using high-throughput sequencing (HTS). Here we analyzed bar-coded Illumina sequencing data from a previous work describing the microbial community found in the sputum of a cystic fibrosis patient by itself or in combination with qPCR to measure the absolute abundance of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Burkholderia multivorans. Through this comparison we were able to determine the computational analysis accuracy of sequencing data to measure the relative abundance of specific taxa. While no correlation was found between relative abundance and absolute abundance of P. aeruginosa or B. multivorans, we did find conclusions derived from HTS data alone differed from those derived from a combination of HTS and qPCR. Our results highlight the importance of using qPCR with HTS when characterizing organisms in microbial communities having a dominant taxon."	
31425993		The Science of the total environment	"{'sub': '2.5', '#text': 'Feedback of airborne bacterial consortia to haze pollution with different PM levels in typical mountainous terrain of Jinan, China.'}"	"Polluted air is as harmful as polluted water sources to public health. As air living organisms, the research on microbial consortia under haze stress with different PM levels in a mountainous environment remains very limited. This study investigated the dynamic changes in bacterial cell counts, apoptosis, human pathogens, consortia characteristics, metabolic pathways, and the biochemical functions under haze conditions with various degrees of pollution (leading pollutant PM) from August to December 2017 in a typical mountainous terrain of Jinan, China. Samples were evaluated with flow cytometry and 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing. Results indicated that cell counts ranged from 6.83 × 10 ± 1.27 × 10 (non-polluted air, NP) to 2.32 × 10 ± 3.56 × 10 (heavily polluted air, HP) cell m air. The proportion of viable apoptotic and necrotic cells were positively correlated to PM. Burkholderia cenocepacia (36.6%) was the most abundant human pathogen found in HP; this gram-negative bacterium is associated with potentially lethal respiratory infections in cystic fibrosis patients. The relative abundance of the phylum Proteobacteria (63.8%) in NP first decreased in lightly polluted (LP) (41.3%) and moderately polluted air (MP) (26.3%) then increased in HP (81.0%). Cupriavidus (22.9%) and BTEX-degrading bacteria (0.6%, Pseudomonas) were found in HP. Metabolic pathways with significant differences included cell motility and endocrine and immune diseases that exhibited increasing relative abundance as pollution levels increased. The diversity of biochemical functions was found to be decreased in hazy air."	
32678518		Pediatric pulmonology	Sustained recovery of exocrine pancreatic function in a teenager with cystic fibrosis treated with ivacaftor.		
23737977		PloS one	"Mechanistic model of Rothia mucilaginosa adaptation toward persistence in the CF lung, based on a genome reconstructed from metagenomic data."	"The impaired mucociliary clearance in individuals with Cystic Fibrosis (CF) enables opportunistic pathogens to colonize CF lungs. Here we show that Rothia mucilaginosa is a common CF opportunist that was present in 83% of our patient cohort, almost as prevalent as Pseudomonas aeruginosa (89%). Sequencing of lung microbial metagenomes identified unique R. mucilaginosa strains in each patient, presumably due to evolution within the lung. The de novo assembly of a near-complete R. mucilaginosa (CF1E) genome illuminated a number of potential physiological adaptations to the CF lung, including antibiotic resistance, utilization of extracellular lactate, and modification of the type I restriction-modification system. Metabolic characteristics predicted from the metagenomes suggested R. mucilaginosa have adapted to live within the microaerophilic surface of the mucus layer in CF lungs. The results also highlight the remarkable evolutionary and ecological similarities of many CF pathogens; further examination of these similarities has the potential to guide patient care and treatment."	
15540712		Irish journal of medical science	Detection of mycobacterial DNA from sputum of patients with cystic fibrosis.	"Patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) are at high risk from atypical mycobacterial infections. There have been few attempts to delineate the intensity of mycobacterial infection in CF patients in Ireland. To examine the incidence of mycobacterial DNA in an archived collection of genomic DNA extracted from the sputa of CF patients within the Northern Ireland population. One hundred and eighty-two CF patients (66 adults and 116 children) were examined for the presence of mycobacterial DNA in their sputum by a genus specific PCR assay based on 16S rRNA, followed by direct automated sequencing of the PCR amplicons. One of 116 (0.9%) children and 2 of 66 adults were positive. Sequence identity revealed Mycobacterium xenopi in the paediatric patient and M. xenopi and M. chelonei in the two adult patients. False-positive results occurred in 11 patients (four adults), mainly due to Corynebacterium spp. There was a low prevalence of Mycobacterium spp in the CF patient population. All PCR positive results should be confirmed by direct automated sequencing and an alternative specific assay employed. Enhanced molecular screening will contribute in understanding their role as opportunistic pathogens in patients with worsening lung function."	
31236842		Advances in experimental medicine and biology	A Method for Comprehensive Proteomic Analysis of Human Faecal Samples to Investigate Gut Dysbiosis in Patients with Cystic Fibrosis.	"This chapter reports the evaluation of two shotgun metaproteomic workflows. The methods were developed to investigate gut dysbiosis via analysis of the faecal microbiota from patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). We aimed to set up an unbiased and effective method to extract the entire proteome, i.e. to extract sufficient bacterial proteins from the faecal samples in combination with a maximum of host proteins giving information on the disease state. Two protocols were compared; the first method involves an enrichment of the bacterial proteins while the second method is a more direct method to generate a whole faecal proteome extract. The different extracts were analysed using denaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis followed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry aiming a maximal coverage of the bacterial protein content in faecal samples. In all extracts, microbial proteins are detected, and in addition, nonbacterial proteins are detected in all samples providing information about the host status. Our study demonstrates the huge influence of the used protein extraction method on the obtained result and shows the need for a standardised and appropriate sample preparation for metaproteomic analysis. To address questions on the health status of the patients, a whole protein extract is preferred over a method to enrich the bacterial fraction. In addition, the method of the whole protein fraction is faster, which gives the possibility to analyse more biological replicates."	
23131830		mBio	Exploring the parallel development of microbial systems in neonates with cystic fibrosis.	"Recent studies have greatly extended our understanding of the microbiota present in and on the human body. Here, advanced sequencing strategies have provided unprecedented analytical power. The important implications that the emerging data have for human health emphasize the need to intensify research in this area (D. A. Relman, Nature 486:194-195, 2012). It is already clear from these studies that the microbiotas characterized in different body locations of healthy individuals are both complex and diverse (The Human Microbiome Project Consortium, Nature 486:215-221). These studies also provide a point of contrast for investigations that aim to characterize the microbiota present in disease conditions. In this regard, Madan et al. (mBio 3(4):e00251-12, 2012) monitored the development over time of microbiota in the oropharynges and feces of neonates with cystic fibrosis and explored the potential for interactions between these complex microbial systems."	
33154274		Indian journal of medical microbiology	"{'i': 'Burkholderia vietnamiensis', '#text': 'causing a non-lactational breast abscess in a non-cystic fibrosis patient in Tamil Nadu, India.'}"	"Burkholderia cepacia complex is a Gram-negative opportunistic pathogen usually found in people with an immunocompromised condition such as cystic fibrosis (CF). In a tropical country like India, this organism has been associated with a number of hospital-acquired infections including sepsis. We present here a report of a case of Burkholderia vietnamiensis causing a non-lactational breast abscess in a non-CF patient. The pathogen was identified as B. cepacia using Vitek system and matrix-assisted laser desorption ionisation-time of flight. This was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using recA genus-specific gene and sequencing of the PCR amplicons. recA-restriction fragment length polymorphism and recA gene sequencing revealed that the isolate is B. vietnamiensis. This is the first description of B. vietnamiensis isolated from a clinical case from India."	
25360611		PloS one	Stochastic tracking of infection in a CF lung.	"Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and Computed Tomography (CT) scan are the two ubiquitous imaging sources that physicians use to diagnose patients with Cystic Fibrosis (CF) or any other Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). Unfortunately the cost constraints limit the frequent usage of these medical imaging procedures. In addition, even though both CT scan and MRI provide mesoscopic details of a lung, in order to obtain microscopic information a very high resolution is required. Neither MRI nor CT scans provide micro level information about the location of infection in a binary tree structure the binary tree structure of the human lung. In this paper we present an algorithm that enhances the current imaging results by providing estimated micro level information concerning the location of the infection. The estimate is based on a calculation of the distribution of possible mucus blockages consistent with available information using an offline Metropolis-Hastings algorithm in combination with a real-time interpolation scheme. When supplemented with growth rates for the pockets of mucus, the algorithm can also be used to estimate how lung functionality as manifested in spirometric tests will change in patients with CF or COPD."	
33112873		PloS one	Clinical impact of respiratory virus in pulmonary exacerbations of children with Cystic Fibrosis.	"Cystic Fibrosis (CF) is a genetic, multisystemic, progressive illness that causes chronic suppurative lung disease. A major cause of morbimortality in this condition are pulmonary exacerbations. Although classically attributed to bacterial infections, respiratory virus have been increasingly recognized in its ethiopathogeny. Nasopharyngeal swab samples were collected from children < 18 years old with CF in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, with pulmonary exacerbation criteria. Samples were submitted to RT-PCR for Adenovirus, Influenza A and B, Parainfluenza Virus, Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV), Metapneumovirus and Rhinovirus. Virus positive and virus negative groups were compared in regards to clinical presentation, severity of exacerbation and bacterial colonization. Out of 70 samples collected from 48 patients, 35.7% were positive for respiratory viruses. Rhinovirus were the most common (28% of all positive samples), followed by RSV. The virus positive group was associated with change in sinus discharge (p = 0.03). Considering only patients younger than five years old, positive virus detection was also associated with fever (p = 0.01). There was no significant difference in clinical severity or in bacterial colonization between virus positive and negative groups. Prospective studies are still needed to assess the long term impact of viral infections in patients with CF, and their interaction with the bacterial microbiome in these patients."	
31922358		International forum of allergy & rhinology	The impact of Lactococcus lactis (probiotic nasal rinse) co-culture on growth of patient-derived strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa.	"The Lactococcus strain of bacteria has been introduced as a probiotic nasal rinse for alleged salubrious effects on the sinonasal bacterial microbiome. However, data regarding interactions with pathogenic bacteria within the sinuses are lacking. The purpose of this study is to assess the interaction between L. lactis and patient-derived Pseudomonas aeruginosa, an opportunistic pathogen in recalcitrant chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS). Commercially available probiotic suspension containing L. lactis W136 was grown in an anaerobic chamber and colonies were isolated. Colonies were co-cultured with patient-derived P. aeruginosa strains in the presence of porcine gastric mucin (mimicking human mucus) for 72 hours. P. aeruginosa cultures without L. lactis served as controls. Colony forming units (CFUs) were compared. Six P. aeruginosa isolates collected from 5 CRS patients (3 isolates from cystic fibrosis [CF], 1 mucoid strain) and laboratory strain PAO1 were co-cultured with L. lactis. There was no statistical difference in CFUs of 5 P. aeruginosa isolates grown with L. lactis compared to CFUs without presence of L. lactis. CFU counts were much higher when the mucoid strain was co-cultured with L. lactis (CFU = 1.9 × 108 ± 1.44 × 107, CFU = 1.3 × 108 ± 8.9 × 106, p = 0.01, n = 7). L. lactis suppressed the growth of 1 P. aeruginosa strain (CFU = 2.15 × 108 ± 2.9 × 107, CFU = 3.95 × 108 ± 4.8 × 106, p = 0.03, n = 7). L. lactis suppressed the growth of 1 patient P. aeruginosa isolate and induced growth of another (a mucoid strain) in in vitro co-culture setting in the presence of mucin. Further experiments are required to assess the underlying interactions between L. lactis and P. aeruginosa."	
31660864		BMC infectious diseases	Direct-from-blood RNA sequencing identifies the cause of post-bronchoscopy fever.	"Antibiotic resistance is rising at disturbing rates and contributes to the deaths of millions of people yearly. Antibiotic resistant infections disproportionately affect those with immunocompromising conditions, chronic colonization, and frequent antibiotic use such as transplant patients or those with cystic fibrosis. However, clinicians lack the diagnostic tools to confidently diagnose and treat infections, leading to widespread use of empiric broad spectrum antimicrobials, often for prolonged duration. A 22 year-old Caucasian female with cystic fibrosis received a bilateral orthotopic lung transplantation 5 months prior to the index hospitalization. She underwent routine surveillance bronchoscopy and was admitted for post-procedure fever. A clear cause of infection was not identified by routine methods. Imaging and bronchoscopic lung biopsy did not identify an infectious agent or rejection. She was treated with a prolonged course of antimicrobials targeting known colonizing organisms from prior bronchoalveolar lavage cultures (Pseudomonas, Staphylococcus aureus, and Aspergillus). However, we identified Stenotrophomonas maltophilia in two independent whole blood samples using direct-pathogen sequencing, which was not identified by other methods. This case represents a common clinical conundrum: identification of infection in a high-risk, complex patient. Here, direct-pathogen sequencing identified a pathogen that would not otherwise have been identified by common techniques. Had results been clinically available, treatment could have been customized, avoiding a prolonged course of broad spectrum antimicrobials that would only exacerbate resistance. Direct-pathogen sequencing is poised to fill a diagnostic gap for pathogen identification, allowing early identification and customization of treatment in a culture-independent, pathogen-agnostic manner."	
36150317		Cytokine	Cytokine patterns in cystic fibrosis patients with different microbial infections in oropharyngeal samples.	"Cytokines play a crucial role in the immune system's regulation by mediating protective responses to infections. anti-inflammatory and pro-inflammatory cytokines are in equilibrium. Therefore, any alteration in cytokine production or cytokine receptor expression might result in pathological illnesses and health issues. Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a genetic disease caused by mutations in the CF transmembrane regulator (CFTR) gene. Lung infection in these patients is related to chronic bacterial airway infection and inflammation, which is triggered by some inflammatory cytokines. Our goal was to compare the cytokine patterns in CF patient's serum and PBMCs caused by microbial pathogens that colonized their airways to controls. ELISA and Real-time PCR were used to determine the levels of IL-10, IFN-γ, IL-4, TGF-β, IL-8, and IL-17 in serum and PBMC cells. Blood parameters in both patients and healthy people were studied. An increase in IL-10, IFN-γ, IL-4 (p-v = 0.03, 0.024 and 0.003) levels and a decrease in IL-17 (p-v = 0.004) was found in Pseudomonas aeruginosa positive patients. There were no different in TGF-β and IL-8 (p-value = 0.778 and 0.903) in this patients. IL-10, IFN-γ, and IL-4 (p-value = 0.023, 0.001 and 0.002) levels were high in Staphylococcus aureus positive patients and TGF-β, IL-17, and IL-8 (p-value = 0.085, 0.167 and 0.362) were not significantly different in the patient and control groups. IFN-γ and IL-4 levels were higher in patients without infection who had normal microbiota (p-v = 0.002 and 0.024). In patients with P. aeruginosa, WBC and platelets increased, and MCH and MCV decreased. Patients with normal microbiota had less MCV. According to our research, patients with P. aeruginosa, S. aureus, and normal microbiota are exposed to cytokine alterations and changes in blood factors. The link between the CF patient's airway microbiota and the kind of generated cytokines might lead to the modulation of inflammatory cytokines alone or in combination with antibiotics, reducing disease-causing effects while avoiding drug resistance."	
27432520	microbial genomics	Scientific reports	Bile signalling promotes chronic respiratory infections and antibiotic tolerance.	"Despite aggressive antimicrobial therapy, many respiratory pathogens persist in the lung, underpinning the chronic inflammation and eventual lung decline that are characteristic of respiratory disease. Recently, bile acid aspiration has emerged as a major comorbidity associated with a range of lung diseases, shaping the lung microbiome and promoting colonisation by Pseudomonas aeruginosa in Cystic Fibrosis (CF) patients. In order to uncover the molecular mechanism through which bile modulates the respiratory microbiome, a combination of global transcriptomic and phenotypic analyses of the P. aeruginosa response to bile was undertaken. Bile responsive pathways responsible for virulence, adaptive metabolism, and redox control were identified, with macrolide and polymyxin antibiotic tolerance increased significantly in the presence of bile. Bile acids, and chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA) in particular, elicited chronic biofilm behaviour in P. aeruginosa, while induction of the pro-inflammatory cytokine Interleukin-6 (IL-6) in lung epithelial cells by CDCA was Farnesoid X Receptor (FXR) dependent. Microbiome analysis of paediatric CF sputum samples demonstrated increased colonisation by P. aeruginosa and other Proteobacterial pathogens in bile aspirating compared to non-aspirating patients. Together, these data suggest that bile acid signalling is a leading trigger for the development of chronic phenotypes underlying the pathophysiology of chronic respiratory disease."	
33720817		Microbial genomics	"{'i': 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa', '#text': 'Transmission, adaptation and geographical spread of the  Liverpool epidemic strain.'}"	"The Liverpool epidemic strain (LES) is an important transmissible clonal lineage of  that chronically infects the lungs of people with cystic fibrosis (CF). Previous studies have focused on the genomics of the LES in a limited number of isolates, mostly from one CF centre in the UK, and from studies highlighting identification of the LES in Canada. Here we significantly extend the current LES genome database by genome sequencing 91 isolates from multiple CF centres across the UK, and we describe the comparative genomics of this large collection of LES isolates from the UK and Canada. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the 145 LES genomes analysed formed a distinct clonal lineage when compared with the wider  population. Notably, the isolates formed two clades: one associated with isolates from Canada, and the other associated with UK isolates. Further analysis of the UK LES isolates revealed clustering by clinic geography. Where isolates clustered closely together, the association was often supported by clinical data linking isolates or patients. When compared with the earliest known isolate, LESB58 (from 1988), many UK LES isolates shared common loss-of-function mutations, such as in genes  and . Other loss-of-function mutations identified in previous studies as common adaptations during CF chronic lung infections were also identified in multiple LES isolates. Analysis of the LES accessory genome (including genomic islands and prophages) revealed variations in the carriage of large genomic regions, with some evidence for shared genomic island/prophage complement according to clinic location. Our study reveals divergence and adaptation during the spread of the LES, within the UK and between continents."	
35096488		Oncoimmunology	Immunostimulatory effects of vitamin B5 improve anticancer immunotherapy.	"Vitamin B5 (panthotenic acid), the precursor of coenzyme A (CoA), is contained in most food items and is produced by the intestinal microbiota. A recent study published in  reports that vitamin B5 and CoA favor the differentiation of CD8 cytotoxic T cells into interleukin-22 (IL-22)-producing Tc22 cells, likely through fueling mitochondrial metabolism. Importantly, in a small cohort of melanoma patients, the plasma levels of vitamin B5 positively correlate with responses to PD-1-targeted immunotherapy. Moreover, in mice, supplementation with vitamin B5 increases the efficacy of PD-L1-targeted cancer immunotherapy, and  culture of T cells with CoA enhances their antitumor activity upon adoptive transfer into mice. These finding suggest that vitamin B5 is yet another B vitamin that stimulates anti-cancer immunosurveillance."	
38395948		Nature communications	Influence of microbiota-associated metabolic reprogramming on clinical outcome in patients with melanoma from the randomized adjuvant dendritic cell-based MIND-DC trial.	"Tumor immunosurveillance plays a major role in melanoma, prompting the development of immunotherapy strategies. The gut microbiota composition, influencing peripheral and tumoral immune tonus, earned its credentials among predictors of survival in melanoma. The MIND-DC phase III trial (NCT02993315) randomized (2:1 ratio) 148 patients with stage IIIB/C melanoma to adjuvant treatment with autologous natural dendritic cell (nDC) or placebo (PL). Overall, 144 patients collected serum and stool samples before and after 2 bimonthly injections to perform metabolomics (MB) and metagenomics (MG) as prespecified exploratory analysis. Clinical outcomes are reported separately. Here we show that different microbes were associated with prognosis, with the health-related Faecalibacterium prausnitzii standing out as the main beneficial taxon for no recurrence at 2 years (p = 0.008 at baseline, nDC arm). Therapy coincided with major MB perturbations (acylcarnitines, carboxylic and fatty acids). Despite randomization, nDC arm exhibited MG and MB bias at baseline: relative under-representation of F. prausnitzii, and perturbations of primary biliary acids (BA). F. prausnitzii anticorrelated with BA, medium- and long-chain acylcarnitines. Combined, these MG and MB biomarkers markedly determined prognosis. Altogether, the host-microbial interaction may play a role in localized melanoma. We value systematic MG and MB profiling in randomized trials to avoid baseline differences attributed to host-microbe interactions."	
30252972		Rapid communications in mass spectrometry : RCM	"{'sub': '2', '#text': 'Towards measuring growth rates of pathogens during infections by D O-labeling lipidomics.'}"	"Microbial growth rate is an important physiological parameter that is challenging to measure in situ, partly because microbes grow slowly in many environments. Recently, it has been demonstrated that generation times of S. aureus in cystic fibrosis (CF) infections can be determined by D O-labeling of actively synthesized fatty acids. To improve species specificity and allow growth rate monitoring for a greater range of pathogens during the treatment of infections, it is desirable to accurately quantify trace incorporation of deuterium into phospholipids. Lipid extracts of D O-treated E. coli cultures were measured on liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (LC/ESI-MS) instruments equipped with time-of-flight (TOF) and orbitrap mass analyzers, and used for comparison with the analysis of fatty acids by isotope-ratio gas chromatography (GC)/MS. We then developed an approach to enable tracking of lipid labeling, by following the transition from stationary into exponential growth in pure cultures. Lastly, we applied D O-labeling lipidomics to clinical samples from CF patients with chronic lung infections. Lipidomics facilitates deuterium quantification in lipids at levels that are useful for many labeling applications (>0.03 at% D). In the E. coli cultures, labeling dynamics of phospholipids depend largely on their acyl chains and between phospholipids we notice differences that are not obvious from absolute concentrations alone. For example, cyclopropyl-containing lipids reflect the regulation of cyclopropane fatty acid synthase, which is predominantly expressed at the beginning of stationary phase. The deuterium incorporation into a lipid that is specific for S. aureus in CF sputum indicates an average generation time of the pathogen on the order of one cell doubling per day. This study demonstrates how trace level measurement of stable isotopes in intact lipids can be used to quantify lipid metabolism in pure cultures and provides guidelines that enable growth rate measurements in microbiome samples after incubation with a low percentage of D O."	
27638207		Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	High-fat diet modifies the PPAR-γ pathway leading to disruption of microbial and physiological ecosystem in murine small intestine.	"Diet is among the most important factors contributing to intestinal homeostasis, and basic functions performed by the small intestine need to be tightly preserved to maintain health. Little is known about the direct impact of high-fat (HF) diet on small-intestinal mucosal defenses and spatial distribution of the microbiota during the early phase of its administration. We observed that only 30 d after HF diet initiation, the intervillous zone of the ileum-which is usually described as free of bacteria-became occupied by a dense microbiota. In addition to affecting its spatial distribution, HF diet also drastically affected microbiota composition with a profile characterized by the expansion of Firmicutes (appearance of Erysipelotrichi), Proteobacteria (Desulfovibrionales) and Verrucomicrobia, and decrease of Bacteroidetes (family S24-7) and Candidatus arthromitus A decrease in antimicrobial peptide expression was predominantly observed in the ileum where bacterial density appeared highest. In addition, HF diet increased intestinal permeability and decreased cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (Cftr) and the Na-K-2Cl cotransporter 1 (Nkcc1) gene and protein expressions, leading to a decrease in ileal secretion of chloride, likely responsible for massive alteration in mucus phenotype. This complex phenotype triggered by HF diet at the interface between the microbiota and the mucosal surface was reversed when the diet was switched back to standard composition or when mice were treated for 1 wk with rosiglitazone, a specific agonist of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ (PPAR-γ). Moreover, weaker expression of antimicrobial peptide-encoding genes and intervillous bacterial colonization were observed in Ppar-γ-deficient mice, highlighting the major role of lipids in modulation of mucosal immune defenses."	
30609424		Rhinology	The sinonasal mycobiota in chronic rhinosinusitis and control patients.	"While bacterial associations with chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) are increasingly well described, fewer studies have examined the fungal component of the sinonasal microbiota. Here we present a study of the sinonasal mycobiota in a cohort of 144 patients (106 patients with CRS and 38 controls). Fungal communities were characterised by analysis of mucosal swab samples of the left and right middle meatuses via ITS2 marker amplicon sequencing on the Illumina MiSeq platform. Fungal associations with previously published bacterial community and inflammatory cytokine and cell data for this cohort (collected at the same intra-operative time point) were also investigated. Malassezia spp. were ubiquitous and often highly predominant. Season of sampling explained more of the variability in the data than any of the clinical parameters. The predominant Malassezia sp. was distinct in patients with cystic fibrosis compared to those without. However, distinctions in the mycobiota were not evident between any other patient groupings assessed, and few fungal-bacterial or fungal-inflammatory associations were observed. This study confirms the prominent place of Malassezia spp. within the upper respiratory tract. Overall, few distinctions between patient groups were evident, and these data lend further support to the hypothesis that fungal community types may have no direct causative association with idiopathic CRS. Additional studies incorporating a broader array of inflammatory markers are required to assess whether these ubiquitous fungi nonetheless play an exacerbating role in some sensitive individuals."	
37168857		Frontiers in immunology	Commensal bacteria of the lung microbiota synergistically inhibit inflammation in a three-dimensional epithelial cell model.	"Patients with chronic lung disease suffer from persistent inflammation and are typically colonized by pro-inflammatory pathogenic bacteria. Besides these pathogens, a wide variety of commensal species is present in the lower airways but their role in inflammation is unclear. Here, we show that the lung microbiota contains several species able to inhibit activation of the pro-inflammatory NF-κB pathway and production of interleukin 8 (IL-8), triggered by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or HO, in a physiologically relevant three-dimensional (3D) lung epithelial cell model. We demonstrate that the minimal dose needed for anti-inflammatory activity differs between species (with the lowest dose needed for ), and depends on the type of pro-inflammatory stimulus and read out. Furthermore, we evaluated synergistic activity between pairs of anti-inflammatory bacteria on the inhibition of the NF-κB pathway and IL-8 secretion. Synergistic anti-inflammatory activity was observed for 4/10 tested consortia. These findings indicate that various microbiota members can influence lung inflammation either alone or as a consortium. This information can contribute to a better understanding of the lung microbiota in chronic lung disease development and process, and could open up new avenues for treatment."	
36154665		Microbiology spectrum	"{'i': ['bla', 'armA'], 'sub': 'OXA-181', '#text': 'Intra- and Interspecies Spread of a Novel Conjugative Multidrug Resistance IncC Plasmid Coharboring  and  in a Cystic Fibrosis Patient.'}"	"A novel multidrug resistance conjugative 177,859-bp IncC plasmid pJEF1-OXA-181 coharboring the carbapenemase-coding  and the aminoglycoside resistance 16S rRNA methyltransferase-coding  genes was detected in two unrelated Escherichia coli gut isolates of ST196 and ST648, as well as two ST35 Klebsiella pneumoniae gut and sputum isolates of a cystic fibrosis patient. The  gene was located within the antimicrobial resistance island ARI-A and the  gene, which was preceded by IS and IS was inserted within the transfer genes region without affecting conjugation ability. Comparative plasmid analysis with other related IncC plasmids showed the presence of , as well as its integration site, are thus far unique for these types of plasmids. This study illustrates the potential of a promiscuous multidrug resistance plasmid to acquire antibiotic resistance genes and to disseminate in the gut of the same host.  Colocalization of carbapenemases and aminoglycoside resistance 16S rRNA methylases on a multidrug resistance conjugative plasmid poses a serious threat to public health. Here, we describe the novel IncC plasmid pJEF1-OXA-181 cocarrying  and  as well as several other antimicrobial resistance genes (ARGs) in different Enterobacterales isolates of the sputum and gut microbiota of a cystic fibrosis patient. IncC plasmids are conjugative, promiscuous elements which can incorporate accessory antimicrobial resistance islands making them key players in ARGs spread. This plasmid was thus far unique among IncC plasmids to contain a  which was integrated in the transfer gene region without affecting its conjugation ability. This study highlights that new plasmids may be introduced into a hospital through different species hosted in one single patient. It further emphasizes the need of continuous surveillance of multidrug-resistant bacteria in patients at risk to avoid spread of such plasmids in the health care system."	
33772084		Scientific reports	High-fiber diets attenuate emphysema development via modulation of gut microbiota and metabolism.	"Dietary fiber functions as a prebiotic to determine the gut microbe composition. The gut microbiota influences the metabolic functions and immune responses in human health. The gut microbiota and metabolites produced by various dietary components not only modulate immunity but also impact various organs. Although recent findings have suggested that microbial dysbiosis is associated with several respiratory diseases, including asthma, cystic fibrosis, and allergy, the role of microbiota and metabolites produced by dietary nutrients with respect to pulmonary disease remains unclear. Therefore, we explored whether the gut microbiota and metabolites produced by dietary fiber components could influence a cigarette smoking (CS)-exposed emphysema model. In this study, it was demonstrated that a high-fiber diet including non-fermentable cellulose and fermentable pectin attenuated the pathological changes associated with emphysema progression and the inflammatory response in CS-exposed emphysema mice. Moreover, we observed that different types of dietary fiber could modulate the diversity of gut microbiota and differentially impacted anabolism including the generation of short-chain fatty acids, bile acids, and sphingolipids. Overall, the results of this study indicate that high-fiber diets play a beneficial role in the gut microbiota-metabolite modulation and substantially affect CS-exposed emphysema mice. Furthermore, this study suggests the therapeutic potential of gut microbiota and metabolites from a high-fiber diet in emphysema via local and systemic inflammation inhibition, which may be useful in the development of a new COPD treatment plan."	
31251978		Genomics	Transcriptome analysis of the distal small intestine of Cftr null mice.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is caused by mutations in the gene encoding the CFTR anion channel. Loss of CFTR function in pancreatic, biliary and intestinal epithelia, severely affects gastrointestinal function. Transcriptome analysis indicated the activation of an innate and adaptive immune response in the distal small intestine of Cftr null mice. Inflammation was associated with differential regulation of numerous genes involved in the transport and metabolism of nutrients and, particularly, lipids, that are targeted by ligand-dependent nuclear receptors and/or HNF4α. Among the most strongly down-regulated genes are the FXR targets Fgf15 and Nr0b2, the PPARα target Pdk4, and the PXR target Ces2a, whereas expression of the CF modifier gene Slc6a14 was strongly increased. Most changes in gene expression were reversed by bacterial containment. Our data suggest that the gut microbiota has a pervasive effect on gene expression in CF mice, affecting enterocyte maturation, lipid metabolism, and nutrient absorption in CF."	
25730092		Genetics and molecular research : GMR	Determining the role of a probiotic in the restoration of intestinal microbial balance by molecular and cultural techniques.	"The human intestine has a vast variety of microorganisms, and their balance is dependent on several factors. Antibiotics affect microfloral balance and allow naturally opportunistic organisms to multiply. Azithromycin is the most widely used macrolide antibiotic, active against a wide number of pathogens including Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus. It is currently used in the treatment of cystic fibrosis patients. The use of probiotics has advantages in gastrointestinal conditions, including infectious diarrhea and imbalance due to antibiotic use. In this research, the effect of azithromycin on the intestinal microbiota of Sprague Dawley rats and the role of Lactobacillus acidophilus in the restoration of the balance by employing molecular and cultural techniques was investigated. PCR with universal primers targeting the V3 region of the 16S rRNA gene followed by DGGE was used to characterize the overall intestinal microbiota composition. Cultivable fecal bacteria count using microbiological media and semi-quantitative PCR with group-specific primers were also utilized to analyze the effects of antibiotic and probiotic on microflora. We found that the total amount of 16S rRNA gene and fecal aerobic bacterial count was reduced following azithromycin administration along with elimination of non-pathogenic Escherichia coli, but it was restored by the use of the probiotic. The results from PCR with group-specific primers showed that Bacteroides sp was present in the control and probiotic groups, but it was nearly eliminated in the antibiotic group. Moreover, semi-quantitative PCR revealed that the numbers of Enterobacteriaceae were nearly the same in the probiotic group and decreased in the antibiotic group, while Bifidobacterium was significantly increased in the probiotic group and decreased in the antibiotic group (P < 0.05) as compared with that in the control group. Azithromycin-induced dysbiosis can result in prolonged deleterious effects on the host. The present study revealed that the use of lactic acid bacteria particularly L. acidophilus helped to restore intestinal microfloral balance."	
32499333		The European respiratory journal	"{'i': 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa', '#text': 'Sputum neutrophil elastase associates with microbiota and  in bronchiectasis.'}"	"Neutrophilic inflammation is a major driver of bronchiectasis pathophysiology, and neutrophil elastase activity is the most promising biomarker evaluated in sputum to date. How active neutrophil elastase correlates with the lung microbiome in bronchiectasis is still unexplored. We aimed to understand whether active neutrophil elastase is associated with low microbial diversity and distinct microbiome characteristics. An observational, cross-sectional study was conducted at the bronchiectasis programme of the Policlinico Hospital in Milan, Italy, where adults with bronchiectasis were enrolled between March 2017 and March 2019. Active neutrophil elastase was measured on sputum collected during stable state, microbiota analysed through 16S rRNA gene sequencing, molecular assessment of respiratory pathogens carried out through real-time PCR and clinical data collected. Among 185 patients enrolled, decreasing α-diversity, evaluated through the Shannon entropy (ρ -0.37, p<0.00001) and Pielou's evenness (ρ -0.36, p<0.00001) and richness (ρ -0.33, p<0.00001), was significantly correlated with increasing elastase. A significant difference in median levels of Shannon entropy as detected between patients with neutrophil elastase ≥20 µg·mL (median 3.82, interquartile range 2.20-4.96)  neutrophil elastase <20 µg·mL (4.88, 3.68-5.80; p<0.0001). A distinct microbiome was found in these two groups, mainly characterised by enrichment with  in the high-elastase group and with  in the low-elastase group. Further confirmation of the association of  with elevated active neutrophil elastase was found based on standard culture and targeted real-time PCR. High levels of active neutrophil elastase are associated to low microbiome diversity and specifically to  infection."	
30863369		Frontiers in microbiology	Nasal Resistome Development in Infants With Cystic Fibrosis in the First Year of Life.	"Polymicrobial infections of the respiratory tract due to antibiotic resistant bacteria are a great concern in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). We therefore aimed at establishing a functional metagenomic method to analyze the nasal resistome in infants with CF within the first year of life. We included samples from patients before antibiotic treatment, which allowed obtaining information regarding natural status of the resistome. In total, we analyzed 130 nasal swabs from 26 infants with CF and screened for β-lactams (ampicillin, amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, and cefuroxime) and other classes of antibiotic resistances (tetracycline, chloramphenicol and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole). For 69 swabs (53% of total), we found at least one non-susceptible phenotype. Analyses of the inserts recovered from non-susceptible clones by nanopore MinION sequencing revealed a large reservoir of resistance genes including mobile elements within the antibiotic naïve samples. Comparing the data of the resistome with the microbiota composition showed that the bacterial phyla and operational taxonomic units (OTUs) of the microbiota rather than the antibiotic treatment were associated with the majority of non-susceptible phenotypes in the resistome. Future studies will reveal if characterization of the resistome can help in clinical decision-making in patients with CF."	
32253427		Journal of animal science	Effects and interaction of dietary electrolyte balance and citric acid on the intestinal function of weaned piglets.	"Fifty-six piglets (6.26 ± 0.64 kg BW) were weaned at 21 d and randomly assigned to one of the eight dietary treatments with seven replicate pens for a 14-d experimental period. The eight experimental diets were prepared via a 2 × 4 factorial arrangement with citric acid (CA; 0% and 0.3%) and dietary electrolyte balance (dEB, Na + K - Cl mEq/kg of the diet; -50, 100, 250, and 400 mEq/kg). Varying dEB values were obtained by altering the contents of calcium chloride and sodium bicarbonate. An interaction (P < 0.05) between dEB and CA in diarrhea score and the number of goblet cell in jejunum were observed. Ileum pH significantly decreased in weaned piglets fed 250 mEq/kg dEB diet compared with those fed -50 and 400 mEq/kg dEB diets (P < 0.05). Supplementation of 0.3% CA decreased the number of goblet cell in the ileal crypt (P < 0.05) and the relative mRNA expression of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator, tumor necrosis factor-α, interferon-γ (IFN-γ), interleukin-1β (IL-1β), interleukin-10 (IL-10), zona occludens-1, and Claudin-1 (P < 0.05). Increasing dEB values increased the number of goblet cells in the jejunal crypt (P < 0.05). A 250-mEq/kg dEB diet decreased the relative mRNA expression of IFN-γ, IL-1β, and IL-10 (P < 0.05) than 100-mEq/kg dEB diet. The interaction between dEB and CA on the relative abundances of Cyanobacteria and Saccharibacteria was observed (P < 0.05). Supplementation of 0.3% CA increased relative abundances of and Streptococcus hyointestinalis. Piglets fed 250-mEq/kg diet increased relative abundances of Firmicutes and Lactobacillus rennini, and decreased the relative abundance of Proteobacteria, Veillonella, Actinobacillus minor, and Escherichia-Shigella.In conclusion, supplementation of 0.3% CA resulted in differential expression of inflammatory cytokines, ion transporters, and tight junction proteins, and changes in the microbial community composition. A 250-mEq/kg dEB diet reduced gastrointestinal pH and promoted the enrichment of beneficial microbes in the gut microbiota, thereby suppressing inflammation and harmful bacteria. However, the addition of CA to diets with different dEB values did not promote intestinal function in weaned piglets."	
35982474		Microbiome	Colistin-degrading proteases confer collective resistance to microbial communities during polymicrobial infections.	"The increasing prevalence of resistance against the last-resort antibiotic colistin is a significant threat to global public health. Here, we discovered a novel colistin resistance mechanism via enzymatic inactivation of the drug and proposed its clinical importance in microbial communities during polymicrobial infections. A bacterial strain of the Gram-negative opportunistic pathogen Stenotrophomonas maltophilia capable of degrading colistin and exhibiting a high-level colistin resistance was isolated from the soil environment. A colistin-degrading protease (Cdp) was identified in this strain, and its contribution to colistin resistance was demonstrated by growth inhibition experiments using knock-out (Δcdp) and complemented (Δcdp::cdp) mutants. Coculture and coinfection experiments revealed that S. maltophilia carrying the cdp gene could inactivate colistin and protect otherwise susceptible Pseudomonas aeruginosa, which may seriously affect the clinical efficacy of the drug for the treatment of cystic fibrosis patients with polymicrobial infection. Our results suggest that Cdp should be recognized as a colistin resistance determinant that confers collective resistance at the microbial community level. Our study will provide vital information for successful clinical outcomes during the treatment of complex polymicrobial infections, particularly including S. maltophilia and other colistin-susceptible Gram-negative pathogens such as P. aeruginosa. Video abstract."	
30478291		Nature microbiology	Prediction of the intestinal resistome by a three-dimensional structure-based method.	"The intestinal microbiota is considered to be a major reservoir of antibiotic resistance determinants (ARDs) that could potentially be transferred to bacterial pathogens via mobile genetic elements. Yet, this assumption is poorly supported by empirical evidence due to the distant homologies between known ARDs (mostly from culturable bacteria) and ARDs from the intestinal microbiota. Consequently, an accurate census of intestinal ARDs (that is, the intestinal resistome) has not yet been fully determined. For this purpose, we developed and validated an annotation method (called pairwise comparative modelling) on the basis of a three-dimensional structure (homology comparative modelling), leading to the prediction of 6,095 ARDs in a catalogue of 3.9 million proteins from the human intestinal microbiota. We found that the majority of predicted ARDs (pdARDs) were distantly related to known ARDs (mean amino acid identity 29.8%) and found little evidence supporting their transfer between species. According to the composition of their resistome, we were able to cluster subjects from the MetaHIT cohort (n = 663) into six resistotypes that were connected to the previously described enterotypes. Finally, we found that the relative abundance of pdARDs was positively associated with gene richness, but not when subjects were exposed to antibiotics. Altogether, our results indicate that the majority of intestinal microbiota ARDs can be considered intrinsic to the dominant commensal microbiota and that these genes are rarely shared with bacterial pathogens."	
25748176		PloS one	The effects of freezing on faecal microbiota as determined using MiSeq sequencing and culture-based investigations.	"High-throughput sequencing has enabled detailed insights into complex microbial environments, including the human gut microbiota. The accuracy of the sequencing data however, is reliant upon appropriate storage of the samples prior to DNA extraction. The aim of this study was to conduct the first MiSeq sequencing investigation into the effects of faecal storage on the microbiota, compared to fresh samples. Culture-based analysis was also completed. Seven faecal samples were collected from healthy adults. Samples were separated into fresh (DNA extracted immediately), snap frozen on dry ice and frozen for 7 days at -80°C prior to DNA extraction or samples frozen at -80°C for 7 days before DNA extraction. Sequencing was completed on the Illumina MiSeq platform. Culturing of total aerobes, anaerobes and bifidobacteria was also completed. No significant differences at phylum or family levels between the treatment groups occurred. At genus level only Faecalibacterium and Leuconostoc were significantly different in the fresh samples compared to the snap frozen group (p = 0.0298; p = 0.0330 respectively). Diversity analysis indicated that samples clustered based on the individual donor, rather than by storage group. No significant differences occurred in the culture-based analysis between the fresh, snap or -80°C frozen samples. Using the MiSeq platform coupled with culture-based analysis, this study highlighted that limited significant changes in microbiota occur following rapid freezing of faecal samples prior to DNA extraction. Thus, rapid freezing of samples prior to DNA extraction and culturing, preserves the integrity of the microbiota."	
29376039		Frontiers in cellular and infection microbiology	Sinus Microanatomy and Microbiota in a Rabbit Model of Rhinosinusitis.	"Rabbits are useful for preclinical studies of sinusitis because of similar physiologic features to humans. The objective of this study is to develop a rabbit model of sinusitis that permits assessment of microanatomy and sampling for evaluating shifts in the sinus microbiota during the development of sinusitis and to test how the mucociliary clearance (MCC) defect might lead to dysbiosis and chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS).  Generation of CRS was accomplished with an insertion of a sterile sponge into the left middle meatus of New Zealand white rabbits ( = 9) for 2 weeks. After sponge removal, 4 rabbits were observed for another 10 weeks and evaluated for CRS using endoscopy, microCT, visualization of the functional micro-anatomy by micro-optical coherence tomography (μOCT), and histopathological analysis of the sinus mucosa. Samples were taken from the left middle meatus and submitted for microbiome analysis.  CT demonstrated opacification of all left sinuses at 2 weeks in all rabbits ( = 9), which persisted in animals followed for another 12 weeks ( = 4). Histology at week 2 showed mostly neutrophils. On week 14, significant infiltration of plasma cells and lymphocytes was noted with increased submucosal glands compared to controls ( = 0.02). Functional microanatomy at 2 weeks showed diminished periciliary layer (PCL) depth ( < 0.0001) and mucus transport ( = 0.0044) compared to controls despite a thick mucus layer. By 12 weeks, the thickened mucus layer was resolved but PCL depletion persisted in addition to decreased ciliary beat frequency (CBF;  < 0.0001). The mucin fermenting microbes () dominated on week 2 and there was a significant shift to potential pathogens (e.g., ) by week 14 compared to both controls and the acute phase ( < 0.05).  We anticipate this reproducible model will provide a means for identifying underlying mechanisms of airway-surface liquid (ASL) depletion and fundamental changes in sinus microbial communities that contribute to the development of CRS. The rabbit model of sinusitis exhibited diminished PCL depth with delayed mucus transport and significant alterations and shift in the sinus microbiome during the development of chronic inflammation."	
32626852		"PHAGE (New Rochelle, N.Y.)"	Methods for Extraction and Detection of Pf Bacteriophage DNA from the Sputum of Patients with Cystic Fibrosis.	"There is increasing interest in the pulmonary microbiome's bacterial and viral communities, particularly in the context of chronic airway infections in cystic fibrosis (CF). However, the isolation of microbial DNA from the sputum from patients with CF is technically challenging and the optimal protocols for the analysis of viral species, including bacteriophage, from clinical samples remains difficult.  In this study, we evaluate a set of methods developed for processing and analyzing sputum from patients with CF with the goal of detecting Pf bacteriophage virion-derived nucleic acid. We evaluate the impact of bead beating, deoxyribonuclease digestion, and heating steps in these protocols focusing on the quantitative assessment of  and Pf bacteriophage in sputum.  Based on these comparative data, we describe an optimized protocol for processing sputum from patients with CF and isolating DNA for polymerase chain reaction or sequencing-based studies.  These studies demonstrate the assessment of a specific bacteriophage and bacteria in sputum from patients with CF."	
25340840		PloS one	Novosphingobium and its potential role in chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases: insights from microbiome studies.	"Bacterial infection of lung airways underlies some of the main complications of COPD, significantly impacting disease progression and outcome. Colonization by bacteria may further synergize, amplify, or trigger pathways of tissue damage started by cigarette smoke, contributing to the characteristic airway inflammation and alveolar destruction of COPD. We sought to elucidate the presence and types of lung bacterial populations in different stages of COPD, aimed at revealing important insights into the pathobiology of the disease. Sequencing of the bacterial small subunit ribosomal RNA gene in 55 well-characterized clinical lung samples, revealed the presence of Novosphingobium spp. (>2% abundance) in lungs of patients with GOLD 3-GOLD 4 COPD, cystic fibrosis and a subset of control individuals. Novosphingobium-specific quantitative PCR was concordant with the sequence data and high levels of Novosphingobium spp. were quantifiable in advanced COPD, but not from other disease stages. Using a mouse model of subacute lung injury due to inhalation of cigarette smoke, bronchoalveolar lavage neutrophil and macrophage counts were significantly higher in mice challenged intratracheally with N. panipatense compared to control mice (p<0.01). Frequencies of neutrophils and macrophages in lung tissue were increased in mice challenged with N. panipatense at room air compared to controls. However, we did not observe an interaction between N. panipatense and subacute cigarette smoke exposure in the mouse. In conclusion, Novosphingobium spp. are present in more severe COPD disease, and increase inflammation in a mouse model of smoke exposure."	
35024091		Computational and structural biotechnology journal	Bacterial low-abundant taxa are key determinants of a healthy airway metagenome in the early years of human life.	"The default removal of low-abundance (rare) taxa from microbial community analyses may lead to an incomplete picture of the taxonomic and functional microbial potential within the human habitat. Publicly available shotgun metagenomics data of healthy children and children with cystic fibrosis (CF) were reanalysed to study the development of the rare species biosphere, which was here defined by either the 15th, 25th or 35th species abundance percentile. We found that healthy children contained an age-independent network of abundant (core) and rare species with both entities being essential in maintaining the network structure. The protein sequence usage for more than 100 bacterial metabolic pathways differed between the core and rare species biosphere. In CF children, the background structure was underdeveloped and random forest bootstrapping based on all constituents of the early airway metagenome and host-associated factors indicated that rare taxa were the most important variables in deciding whether a child was healthy or suffered from the life-limiting CF disease. Attempts failed to make the age-independent CF network as robust as the healthy structure when an increasing number of bacterial taxa from the healthy network was incorporated into the CF structure by computer-based model simulations. However, the transfer of a key combination of taxa from the healthy to the CF network structure with high species diversity and low species dominance, correlated with a more robust CF network and a topological approximation of CF and healthy graph structures. Rothia mucilaginosa, Streptococci and rare species were essential in improving the underdeveloped CF network."	
30728283		mSphere	Comparison of Subtyping Approaches and the Underlying Drivers of Microbial Signatures for Chronic Rhinosinusitis.	"Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) is a heterogeneous condition characterized by persistent sinus inflammation and microbial dysbiosis. This study aimed to identify clinically relevant subgroups of CRS patients based on distinct microbial signatures, with a comparison to the commonly used phenotypic subgrouping approach. The underlying drivers of these distinct microbial clusters were also investigated, together with associations with epithelial barrier integrity. Sinus biopsy specimens were collected from CRS patients ( = 23) and disease controls ( = 8). The expression of 42 tight junction genes was evaluated using quantitative PCR together with microbiota analysis and immunohistochemistry for measuring mucosal integrity and inflammation. CRS patients clustered into two distinct microbial subgroups using probabilistic modelling Dirichlet (DC) multinomial mixtures. DC1 exhibited significantly reduced bacterial diversity and increased dispersion and was dominated by , , and  DC2 had significantly elevated B cells and incidences of nasal polyps and higher numbers of , , , , and  In addition, each DC exhibited distinct tight junction gene and protein expression profiles compared with those of controls. Stratifying CRS patients based on clinical phenotypic subtypes (absence or presence of nasal polyps [CRSsNP or CRSwNP, respectively] or with cystic fibrosis [CRSwCF]) accounted for a larger proportion of the variation in the microbial data set than with DC groupings. However, no significant differences between CRSsNP and CRSwNP cohorts were observed for inflammatory markers, beta-dispersion, and alpha-diversity measures. In conclusion, both approaches used for stratifying CRS patients had benefits and pitfalls, but DC clustering provided greater resolution when studying tight junction impairment. Future studies in CRS should give careful consideration to the patient subtyping approach used. Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) is a major human health problem that significantly reduces quality of life. While various microbes have been implicated, there is no clear understanding of the role they play in CRS pathogenesis. Another equally important observation made for CRS patients is that the epithelial barrier in the sinonasal cavity is defective. Finding a robust approach to subtype CRS patients would be the first step toward unravelling the pathogenesis of this heterogeneous condition. Previous work has explored stratification based on the clinical presentation of the disease (with or without polyps), inflammatory markers, pathology, or microbial composition. Comparisons between the different stratification approaches used in these studies have not been possible due to the different cohorts, analytical methods, or sample sites used. In this study, two approaches for subtyping CRS patients were compared, and the underlying drivers of the heterogeneity in CRS were also explored."	
33447816		Biofilm	Antibiotic susceptibility of cystic fibrosis lung microbiome members in a multispecies biofilm.	"The lungs of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients are often chronically colonized by multiple microbial species that can form biofilms, including the major CF pathogen . Herewith, lower microbial diversity in CF airways is typically associated with worse health outcomes. In an attempt to treat CF lung infections patients are frequently exposed to antibiotics, which may affect microbial diversity. This study aimed at understanding if common antibiotics that target  influence microbial diversity. To this end, a microaerophilic multispecies biofilm model of frequently co-isolated members of the CF lung microbiome (, , , , , and ) was exposed to antipseudomonal antibiotics. We found that antibiotics that affected several dominant species (i.e. ceftazidime, tobramycin) resulted in higher species evenness compared to colistin, which is only active against . Furthermore, susceptibility of individual species in the multispecies biofilm following antibiotic treatment was compared to that of the respective single-species biofilms, showing no differences. Adding three anaerobic species (, , and ) to the multispecies biofilm did not influence antibiotic susceptibility. In conclusion, our study demonstrates antibiotic-dependent effects on microbial community diversity of multispecies biofilms comprised of CF microbiome members."	
27484261		International journal of food sciences and nutrition	Wheat bran components modulate intestinal bacteria and gene expression of barrier function relevant proteins in a piglet model.	"The objective of this study was to determine the impact of wheat bran and its main polysaccharides on intestinal bacteria and gene expression of intestinal barrier function relevant proteins. Thirty freshly weaned male piglets were assigned randomly to five dietary treatment groups with six piglets per group. Accordingly, five synthetic diets including a basal control diet without fiber components (CON), wheat bran diet (10% wheat bran, WB), arabinoxylan diet (AX), cellulose diet (CEL) and combined diet of arabinoxylan and cellulose (CB) were studied. The piglets were fed ad libitum for 30 d. Lower Escherichia coli (E. coli) populations in WB group and higher probiotic (Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium) populations in groups fed diets containing arabinoxylan (WB, AX and CB) were observed and compared with CON group. Compared with CON group, the gene expressions of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), calcium-activated chloride channel regulator 1 (CLCA1) and voltage-gated chloride channel 2 (CIC2) were suppressed in the WB group. And wheat bran down-regulated gene expression of pro-inflammation (TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6) and TLRs/MyD88/NF-κB pathway compared with CON group. In conclusion, wheat bran and its main polysaccharides could change intestinal microflora and down-regulate the gene expression of intestinal barrier function relevant proteins in the distal small intestinal mucosa."	
28449644		BMC microbiology	Erratum to: The altered gut microbiota in adults with cystic fibrosis.		
29101284		Thorax	Genetic mannose binding lectin deficiency is associated with airway microbiota diversity and reduced exacerbation frequency in COPD.	"In cystic fibrosis and bronchiectasis, genetic mannose binding lectin (MBL) deficiency is associated with increased exacerbations and earlier mortality; associations in COPD are less clear. Preclinical data suggest MBL interferes with phagocytosis of , a key COPD pathogen. We investigated whether MBL deficiency impacted on clinical outcomes or microbiota composition in COPD. Patients with COPD (n=1796) underwent MBL genotyping; linkage to health records identified exacerbations, lung function decline and mortality. A nested subcohort of 141 patients, followed for up to 6 months, was studied to test if MBL deficiency was associated with altered sputum microbiota, through 16S rRNA PCR and sequencing, or airway inflammation during stable and exacerbated COPD. Patients with MBL deficiency with COPD were significantly less likely to have severe exacerbations (incidence rate ratio (IRR) 0.66, 95% CI 0.48 to 0.90, p=0.009), or to have moderate or severe exacerbations (IRR 0.77, 95% CI 0.60 to 0.99, p=0.047). MBL deficiency did not affect rate of FEV decline or mortality. In the subcohort, patients with MBL deficiency had a more diverse lung microbiota (p=0.008), and were less likely to be colonised with  spp. There were lower levels of airway inflammation in patients with MBL deficiency. Patients with MBL deficient genotype with COPD have a lower risk of exacerbations and a more diverse lung microbiota. This is the first study to identify a genetic association with the lung microbiota in COPD."	
23329012		Digestive diseases and sciences	Lubiprostone decreases mouse colonic inner mucus layer thickness and alters intestinal microbiota.	"Lubiprostone has been used to treat constipation through its effects to stimulate Cl(-) secretion, resulting in water and electrolyte secretion. Potential associated changes in intestinal mucus and the colonizing bacteria (microbiome) have not been studied. As mucus obstructions may play a role in cystic fibrosis, the hypothesis that lubiprostone alters intestinal mucus and the microbiome was investigated. Ion transport studies were performed ex vivo. For mucus and microbiome studies, mice were gavaged daily with lubiprostone or vehicle. Mucin from intestinal sections was analyzed in Carnoy's fixed tissues stained with Alcian blue. Microbiome composition was analyzed by 16S rRNA gene-based sequencing. Lubiprostone stimulated short circuit current in all mouse intestinal segments after both serosal and mucosal additions, albeit at lower concentrations in the latter. Current was Cl-dependent and blocked by mucosal diphenylcarboxylic acid, serosal bumetanide, and serosal Ba(++). The CFTR inhibitor CFTRinh172 had a marginal effect. Mucus near epithelial cells (inner layer mucus) was not present in the small intestine of any mice. Proximal colon inner mucus layer was thicker in ∆F/∆F compared with +/∆F and +/+ mice. Lubiprostone decreased inner mucus layer thickness in both proximal and distal colon of all mice. Furthermore, lubiprostone altered the intestinal microbiome by increasing abundance of Lactobacillus and Alistipes. Lubiprostone activates non-CFTR Cl(-) secretion and alters the colonic inner mucus layer, which is associated with changes in the composition of the enteric microbiome."	
36168550		Open forum infectious diseases	Impact of Antibiotics on the Lung Microbiome and Lung Function in Children With Cystic Fibrosis 1 Year After Hospitalization for an Initial Pulmonary Exacerbation.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is characterized by recurrent pulmonary exacerbations (PEx) and lung function decline. PEx are frequently treated with antibiotics. However, little is known about the effects of antibiotics on the airway microbiome of persons with CF over time. The purpose of this study was to evaluate changes in the microbiome and lung function in persons with CF over 1 year following an initial study pulmonary exacerbation (iPEx). Twenty children aged ≤18 years with CF were enrolled in the study, which occurred prior to the routine administration of highly effective modulator therapy. Respiratory samples and spirometry were obtained at a minimum of quarterly visits and up to 1 year after an iPEx. Metagenomic sequencing was performed, and bacterial taxa were assigned using MetaPhlAn 2.0. Paired  test, analysis of variance, and generalized least squares regression were used to compare outcome variables. The mean age of study participants at the time of the iPEx was 10.6 years. There were 3 ± 1.6 PEx treated with antibiotics per person during the study period. Bacterial richness was similar at 1 year compared to iPEx (40.3 vs 39.3,  = .852), whereas the mean Shannon diversity index was significantly higher at 1 year (2.84 vs 1.62,  < .001). The number of PEx treated with antibiotics was not associated with changes in microbial diversity but was associated with changes in lung function. In our 1-year prospective study, we found that microbial diversity increased despite decreases in lung function associated with repeated PEx events requiring antibiotic therapy."	
30894139		BMC genomics	Rapid cell division of Staphylococcus aureus during colonization of the human nose.	"Staphylococcus aureus is an important opportunistic pathogen and a commensal bacterium, thriving in the nasal cavities of 20% of the human population. Little is known about the dynamics of asymptomatic colonization and the occasional transition to infectious disease. In this study, we inferred that S. aureus cells replicate every one to three hours on average while colonizing the human nose, based on two independent lines of genomic evidence. First, we collected nasal swab samples from human subjects, extracted and sequenced metagenomic DNA, and analyzed the distribution of sequencing coverage along the staphylococcal chromosome. Calibration of this data by comparison to a laboratory culture enabled measuring S. aureus cell division rates in nasal samples. Second, we applied mutation accumulation experiments paired with genome sequencing to measure spontaneous mutation rates at a genome scale. Relating these mutation rates to annual evolutionary rates confirmed that nasal S. aureus continuously pass several thousand cell divisions per year when averaged over large, globally distributed populations and over many years, corresponding to generation times of less than two hours. The cell division rates we determined were higher than the fastest documented rates during fulminant disease progression (in a mouse model of systemic infection) and much higher than those previously measured in expectorated sputum from cystic fibrosis patients. This paper supplies absolute in-vivo generation times for an important bacterial commensal, indicating that colonization of the human upper respiratory tract is characterized by a highly dynamic equilibrium between bacterial growth and removal."	
36698799		Frontiers in medicine	Using metabolic potential within the airway microbiome as predictors of clinical state in persons with cystic fibrosis.	"Pulmonary exacerbations (PEx) in persons with cystic fibrosis (CF) are primarily related to acute or chronic inflammation associated with bacterial lung infections, which may be caused by several bacteria that activate similar bacterial genes and produce similar by-products. The goal of our study was to perform a stratified functional analysis of bacterial genes at three distinct time points in the treatment of a PEx in order to determine the role that specific airway microbiome community members may play within each clinical state (i.e., PEx, end of antibiotic treatment, and follow-up). Our secondary goal was to compare the change between clinical states with the metabolic activity of specific airway microbiome community members. This was a prospective observational study of persons with CF treated with intravenous antibiotics for PEx between 2016 and 2020 at Children's National Hospital. Demographic and clinical information as well as respiratory samples were collected at hospital admission for PEx, end of antibiotic treatment, and follow-up. Metagenomic sequencing was performed; MetaPhlAn3 and HUMANn3 were used to assign sequences to bacterial species and bacterial metabolic genes, respectively. Twenty-two persons with CF, with a mean age of 14.5 (range 7-23) years, experienced 45 PEx during the study period. Two-hundred twenty-one bacterial species were identified in the respiratory samples from the study cohort. Ten bacterial species had differential gene abundance across changes in the clinical state including , , and  (all padj < 0.01 and log2FoldChange > |2|). These corresponded to a differential abundance of bacterial genes, with  accounting for 81% of the genes more abundant in PEx and  accounting for 83% of the genes more abundant in follow-up, all compared to the end of treatment. Lastly, 8,653 metabolic pathways were identified across samples, with again  and  contributing to the differential abundance of pathways (106 in PEx vs. 66 in follow-up, respectively).  was associated with a single metabolic pathway (UDP--acetyl-D-glucosamine biosynthesis) increased in follow-up compared to PEx. Taken together, these data suggest that the metabolic potential of bacterial species can provide more insight into changes across clinical states than the relative abundance of the bacteria alone."	
38098883		Water research X	Extended water stagnation in buildings during the COVID-19 pandemic increases the risks posed by opportunistic pathogens.	"The regrowth and subsequent exposure of opportunistic pathogens (OPs) whilst reopening buildings that have been locked down due to the stay-at-home restrictions to limit the spread of COVID-19, is a public health concern. To better understand such microbiological risks due to lowered occupancy and water demand in buildings, first and post-flush water samples (n = 48) were sampled from 24 drinking water outlets from eight university buildings in two campuses (urban and rural), with various end-user occupancies. Both campuses were served with chlorinated water originating from a single drinking water distribution system in South-East Queensland, situated 14 km apart, where the rural campus had lower chlorine residuals. Culture-dependent and culture-independent methods (such as flow cytometry, qPCR and 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing) were used concurrently to comprehensively characterise the OPs of interest ( spp., , and nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM)) and the premise plumbing microbiome. Results showed that buildings with extended levels of stagnation had higher and diverse levels of microbial growth, as observed in taxonomic structure and composition of the microbial communities. NTM were ubiquitous in all the outlets sampled, regardless of campus or end-user occupancy of the buildings. qPCR and culture demonstrated prevalent and higher concentrations of NTM in buildings (averaging 3.25 log[estimated genomic copies/mL]) with extended stagnation in the urban campus. Furthermore, flushing the outlets for 30 minutes restored residual and total chlorine, and subsequently decreased the levels of  by a reduction of 1 log. However, this approach was insufficient to restore total and residual chlorine levels for the outlets in the rural campus, where both  and NTM levels detected by qPCR remained unchanged, regardless of building occupancy. Our findings highlight that regular monitoring of operational parameters such as residual chlorine levels, and the implementation of water risk management plans are important for non-healthcare public buildings, as the levels of OPs in these environments are typically not assessed."	
29556535		mSystems	Host-Microbe Interactions in Airway Disease: toward Disease Mechanisms and Novel Therapeutic Strategies.	"Despite growing efforts to understand the role of the microbiota in airway disease, mechanisms that link microbial community dysbiosis to chronic inflammation remain elusive. Our laboratory is interested in how altered microbiota composition or function influences airway inflammatory diseases, including chronic rhinosinusitis, asthma, and cystic fibrosis. Given the tight interplay between host-associated microbes and host immunity, the potential for translational microbiome research to guide clinical decisions and novel therapeutics is becoming better appreciated. We hope to advance our understanding of the ecology of airway disease through integrating multiple omics assays and  and  experimental validation. An increased understanding of the role of the microbiota in chronic airway inflammation will ultimately lead to the rational development of therapeutics aimed at manipulation of microbiota composition or activity to treat these important and costly diseases. In this perspective, I discuss our current research investigating the microbiology and ecology of the airway microbiome."	
33172004		Microorganisms	Bile Acid Signal Molecules Associate Temporally with Respiratory Inflammation and Microbiome Signatures in Clinically Stable Cystic Fibrosis Patients.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a congenital disorder resulting in a multisystemic impairment in ion homeostasis. The subsequent alteration of electrochemical gradients severely compromises the function of the airway epithelia. These functional changes are accompanied by recurrent cycles of inflammation-infection that progressively lead to pulmonary insufficiency. Recent developments have pointed to the existence of a gut-lung axis connection, which may modulate the progression of lung disease. Molecular signals governing the interplay between these two organs are therefore candidate molecules requiring further clinical evaluation as potential biomarkers. We demonstrate a temporal association between bile acid (BA) metabolites and inflammatory markers in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) from clinically stable children with CF. By modelling the BALF-associated microbial communities, we demonstrate that profiles enriched in operational taxonomic units assigned to supraglottic taxa and opportunistic pathogens are closely associated with inflammatory biomarkers. Applying regression analyses, we also confirmed a linear link between BA concentration and pathogen abundance in BALF. Analysis of the time series data suggests that the continuous detection of BAs in BALF is linked to differential ecological succession trajectories of the lung microbiota. Our data provide further evidence supporting a role for BAs in the early pathogenesis and progression of CF lung disease."	
35355602		Frontiers in medicine	"{'i': 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa', '#text': 'A Shaving Proteomic Approach to Unveil Surface Proteins Modulation of Multi-Drug Resistant  Strains Isolated From Cystic Fibrosis Patients.'}"	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most common rare disease caused by a mutation of the  gene encoding a channel protein of the apical membrane of epithelial cells leading to alteration of Na and K transport, hence inducing accumulation of dense and sticky mucus and promoting recurrent airway infections. The most detected bacterium in CF patients is  (PA) which causes chronic colonization, requiring stringent antibiotic therapies that, in turn induces multi-drug resistance. Despite eradication attempts at the first infection, the bacterium is able to utilize several adaptation mechanisms to survive in hostile environments such as the CF lung. Its adaptive machinery includes modulation of surface molecules such as efflux pumps, flagellum, pili and other virulence factors. In the present study we compared surface protein expression of PA multi- and pan-drug resistant strains to wild-type antibiotic-sensitive strains, isolated from the airways of CF patients with chronic colonization and recent infection, respectively. After shaving with trypsin, microbial peptides were analyzed by tandem-mass spectrometry on a high-resolution platform that allowed the identification of 174 differentially modulated proteins localized in the region from extracellular space to cytoplasmic membrane. Biofilm assay was performed to characterize all 26 PA strains in term of biofilm production. Among the differentially expressed proteins, 17 were associated to the virulome (e.g., Tse2, Tse5, Tsi1, PilF, FliY, B-type flagellin, FliM, PyoS5), six to the resistome (e.g., OprJ, LptD) and five to the biofilm reservoir (e.g., AlgF, PlsD). The biofilm assay characterized chronic antibiotic-resistant isolates as weaker biofilm producers than wild-type strains. Our results suggest the loss of PA early virulence factors (e.g., pili and flagella) and later expression of virulence traits (e.g., secretion systems proteins) as an indicator of PA adaptation and persistence in the CF lung environment. To our knowledge, this is the first study that, applying a shaving proteomic approach, describes adaptation processes of a large collection of PA clinical strains isolated from CF patients in early and chronic infection phases."	
19046425	sputum 16S	BMC genomics	Use of pyrosequencing and DNA barcodes to monitor variations in Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes communities in the gut microbiota of obese humans.	"Recent studies of 16S rRNA genes in the mammalian gut microbiota distinguished a higher Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio in obese individuals compared to lean individuals. This ratio was estimated using a clonal Sanger sequencing approach which is time-consuming and requires laborious data analysis. In contrast, new high-throughput pyrosequencing technology offers an inexpensive alternative to clonal Sanger sequencing and would significantly advance our understanding of obesity via the development of a clinical diagnostic method. Here we present a cost-effective method that combines 16S rRNA pyrosequencing and DNA barcodes of the Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes 16S rRNA genes to determine the Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio in the gut microbiota of obese humans. The main result was the identification of DNA barcodes targeting the Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes phyla. These barcodes were validated using previously published 16S rRNA gut microbiota clone libraries. In addition, an accurate F/B ratio was found when the DNA barcodes were applied to short pyrosequencing reads of published gut metagenomes. Finally, the barcodes were utilized to define the F/B ratio of 16S rRNA pyrosequencing data generated from brain abscess pus and cystic fibrosis sputum. Using DNA barcodes of Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes 16S rRNA genes combined with pyrosequencing is a cost-effective method for monitoring relevant changes in the relative abundance of Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes bacterial communities in microbial ecosystems."	?
36115601		Journal of ethnopharmacology	Hericium caput-medusae (Bull.:Fr.) Pers. fermentation concentrate polysaccharides improves intestinal bacteria by activating chloride channels and mucus secretion.	"As a traditional edible fungus in China and many other Asian countries, Hericium caput-medusae (Bull. Fr.) Pers. is widely used to improve the health of the gastrointestinal tract. For example, the drug ""Weilexin Granules"" is mainly composed of H. caput-medusae (Bull. Fr.) Pers. fermentation concentrate. However, the mechanism of action remains to be elucidated. The purpose of this study was to assess whether polysaccharides from H. caput-medusae (Bull. Fr.) Pers. fermentation concentrate (HFP) exerts a gut protective effect and a regulatory effect on the intestinal microbiota through the chloride channels and mucus secretion. HFP was extracted, characterized and different concentrations of HFP (100, 200, 400 mg/kg) were administered to mice for 14 days. The changes in gut microbiota were observed via 16S high throughput sequencing. Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) was detected by GC-MS. AB-PAS staining was used to observe the secretion of mucus. The chloride channel activity and protein expression were verified by short-circuit current measurement and Western blot. HFP regulated the abundance of gut microbiota in mice, with increased levels of Ruminococcaceae and Lachnospiraceae and reduced proportions of Staphylococcus and Enterobacter. HFP enhanced mucus volume as well as increased intestinal fluid secretion by activating the chloride channels. In addition, short-circuit current experiments also proved that HFP activates Cl⁻ currents targeting cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) and Anoamin1 (ANO1). In conclusion, HFP might increase intestinal fluid secretion by promoting Cl⁻ secretion, which in turn advanced mucus hydration as well as regulated gut microbiota to improve intestinal health. Therefore, H. caput-medusae (Bull. Fr.) Pers. could be potentially used in the regulation of intestinal secretion and microbes."	
29717461		"Methods in molecular biology (Clifton, N.J.)"	Phasing DNA Markers Using Digital PCR.	"Besides quantifying the absolute number of copies of known DNA targets, digital PCR can also be used to assess whether two nonpolymorphic gene sequences or two heterozygous markers reside on the same DNA molecule (i.e., are physically linked). Some useful linkage applications include: phasing variants to define a haplotype; genotyping of inversions; determining the presence of multimarker pathogenic bacteria in a metagenomic sample; and assessing DNA integrity. This chapter describes an efficient and cost-effective method for analyzing linkage of any two genetic sequences up to at least 200 Kb apart, including phasing of heterozygous markers such as that which occur abundantly in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene."	
37323900		Frontiers in microbiology	Therapeutic interventions alter ecological interactions among cystic fibrosis airway microbiota.	"The airways of people with cystic fibrosis () often harbor a diverse microbiota and in recent years, much effort has been invested in cataloguing these. In spite of providing a wealth of insight, this cataloguing tells us little about how the organisms interact with one another in the  airways. However, such relationships can be inferred using the theoretical framework of the Lotka-Volterra (LV) model. In the current work, we use a generalized Lotka-Volterra model to interrogate the nationwide data collected and curated by the UK  Registry. This longitudinal dataset (covering the period 2008-2020) contains annual depositions that record the presence/absence of microbial taxa in each patient, their medication, and their  genotype. Specifically, we wanted to identify trends in ecological relationships between the  microbiota at a nationwide level, and whether these are potentially affected by medication. Our results show that some medications have a distinct influence on the microbial interactome, especially those that potentially influence the ""gut-lung axis"" or mucus viscosity. In particular, we found that patients treated with a combination of antimicrobial agents (targeting the airway microbiota), digestive enzymes (assisting in the assimilation of dietary fats and carbohydrates), and DNase (to reduce mucus viscosity) displayed a distinctly different airway interactome compared with patients treated separately with these medications."	
38878342		Diagnostic microbiology and infectious disease	Culture-independent Multilocus sequence typing screening for Haemophilus influenzae cross-infection in non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis.	Whether cross-infection of respiratory pathogens between patients with non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis occurs is debated. Investigation with traditional microbiological culture risks simplifying the lung microbiome. We demonstrate the use of culture-independent Multilocus sequence typing to screen for Haemophilus influenzae strain types in a cohort of twenty-eight patients with non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis.	
25071935		Microbiome	The microbiome in pediatric cystic fibrosis patients: the role of shared environment suggests a window of intervention.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is caused by mutations in the CFTR gene that predispose the airway to infection. Chronic infection by pathogens such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa leads to inflammation that gradually degrades lung function, resulting in morbidity and early mortality. In a previous study of CF monozygotic twins, we demonstrate that genetic modifiers significantly affect the establishment of persistent P. aeruginosa colonization in CF. Recognizing that bacteria other than P. aeruginosa contribute to the CF microbiome and associated pathology, we used deep sequencing of sputum from pediatric monozygotic twins and nontwin siblings with CF to characterize pediatric bacterial communities and the role that genetics plays in their evolution. We found that the microbial communities in sputum from pediatric patients living together were much more alike than those from pediatric individuals living apart, regardless of whether samples were taken from monozygous twins or from nontwin CF siblings living together, which we used as a proxy for dizygous twins. In contrast, adult communities were comparatively monolithic and much less diverse than the microbiome of pediatric patients. Taken together, these data and other recent studies suggest that as patients age, the CF microbiome becomes less diverse, more refractory to treatment and dominated by mucoid P. aeruginosa, as well as being associated with accelerated pulmonary decline. Our studies show that the microbiome of pediatric patients is susceptible to environmental influences, suggesting that interventions to preserve the community structure found in young CF patients might be possible, perhaps slowing disease progression."	
38554847		Journal of hepatology	Prominent role of gut dysbiosis in the pathogenesis of cystic fibrosis-related liver disease in mice.	"Cystic fibrosis-related liver disease (CFLD) is a chronic cholangiopathy that increases morbidity and mortality in patients with CF. Current treatments are unsatisfactory, and incomplete understanding of CFLD pathogenesis hampers therapeutic development. We have previously shown that mouse CF cholangiocytes respond to lipopolysaccharide with excessive inflammation. Thus, we investigated the role of the gut-liver axis in the pathogenesis of CFLD. Wild-type (WT), whole-body Cftr knockout (CFTR-KO) and gut-corrected (CFTR-KO-GC) mice were studied. Liver changes were assessed by immunohistochemistry and single-cell transcriptomics (single-cell RNA sequencing), inflammatory mediators were analysed by proteome array, faecal microbiota by 16S ribosomal RNA sequencing and gut permeability by FITC-dextran assay. The livers of CFTR-KO mice showed ductular proliferation and periportal inflammation, whereas livers of CFTR-KO-GC mice had no evident pathology. Single-cell RNA sequencing analysis of periportal cells showed increased presence of neutrophils, macrophages and T cells, and activation of pro-inflammatory and pathogen-mediated immune pathways in CFTR-KO livers, consistent with a response to gut-derived stimuli. CFTR-KO mice exhibited gut dysbiosis with enrichment of Enterobacteriaceae and Enterococcus spp., which was associated with increased intestinal permeability and mucosal inflammation, whereas gut dysbiosis and inflammation were absent in CFTR-KO-GC mice. Treatment with nonabsorbable antibiotics ameliorated intestinal permeability and liver inflammation in CFTR-KO mice. Faecal microbiota transfer from CFTR-KO to germ-free WT mice did not result in dysbiosis nor liver pathology, indicating that defective intestinal CFTR is required to maintain dysbiosis. Defective CFTR in the gut sustains a pathogenic microbiota, creates an inflammatory milieu, and alters intestinal permeability. These changes are necessary for the development of cholangiopathy. Restoring CFTR in the intestine or modulating the microbiota could be a promising strategy to prevent or attenuate liver disease. Severe cystic fibrosis-related liver disease (CFLD) affects 10% of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) and contributes to increased morbidity and mortality. Treatment options remain limited due to a lack of understanding of disease pathophysiology. The cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) mediates Cl and HCO secretion in the biliary epithelium and its defective function is thought to cause cholestasis and excessive inflammatory responses in CF. However, our study in Cftr-knockout mice demonstrates that microbial dysbiosis, combined with increased intestinal permeability caused by defective CFTR in the intestinal mucosa, acts as a necessary co-factor for the development of CFLD-like liver pathology in mice. These findings uncover a major role for the gut microbiota in CFLD pathogenesis and call for further investigation and clinical validation to develop targeted therapeutic strategies acting on the gut-liver axis in CF."	
38967490		Microbiology resource announcements	Human gut microbiota analysis of cystic fibrosis infants using metaproteomics.	"We report a metaproteomic analysis of the gut microbiota of eight infants with cystic fibrosis, during the first year of life. This is the first study in this disease that uses metaproteomics to analyze stool samples from patients at such a young age."	
26266076		SpringerPlus	Insights into the respiratory tract microbiota of patients with cystic fibrosis during early Pseudomonas aeruginosa colonization.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa plays a major role in cystic fibrosis (CF) progression. Therefore, it is important to understand the initial steps of P. aeruginosa infection. The structure and dynamics of CF respiratory tract microbial communities during the early stages of P. aeruginosa colonization were characterized by pyrosequencing and cloning-sequencing. The respiratory microbiota showed high diversity, related to the young age of the CF cohort (mean age 10 years). Wide inter- and intra-individual variations were revealed. A common core microbiota of 5 phyla and 13 predominant genera was found, the majority of which were obligate anaerobes. A few genera were significantly more prevalent in patients never infected by P. aeruginosa. Persistence of an anaerobic core microbiota regardless of P. aeruginosa status suggests a major role of certain anaerobes in the pathophysiology of lung infections in CF. Some genera may be potential biomarkers of pulmonary infection state."	
38156302		Iranian journal of microbiology	Comparison of culture and PCR-DGGE methods to evaluate the airways of cystic fibrosis patients and determination of their antibiotic resistance profile.	"Respiratory infections are the most serious condition in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients; therefore, a thorough comprehension of the diversity and dominant microbial species in CF airways has a crucial role in treatment. Our objective was to determine the antibiotic resistance profile of CF airways microbiota and compare culture methods and PCR-DGGE to evaluate bacterial diversity. Pharyngeal swabs from 121 CF patients were collected. The samples were then cultured, identified and antibiotic resistance testing was performed. Thirty samples were subjected to further molecular surveys. DNA contents of these samples were extracted and amplified using nested-PCR technique and their bacterial diversity was assessed by DGGE. The DGGE patterns were visualized and certain bands were excised and purified. Next, the DNA was amplified by another round of PCR and sent out for sequencing. and  were the most prevalent species isolated using culture methods.  was the most common bacteria among 6 years and younger patients; while,  had more prevalence among older ones. The PCR-DGGE results showed more diversity than culture methods, particularly in younger patients who exhibited more bacterial diversity than the older groups. Sequencing results unveiled the presence of certain bacterial species including  and  which were completely missed in culture. Even though culture-dependent methods are cost-effective, PCR-DGGE appeared to be more efficient to determine bacterial diversity. PCR-DGGE detects less abundant species, though their viability could not be determined using this method."	
27995056		Respiratory medicine case reports	Ralstonia mannitolilytica in cystic fibrosis: A new predictor of worse outcomes.	"Patients with Cystic Fibrosis are subject to repeated respiratory tract infections, with recent increasing isolation of unusual pathogens. Ralstonia species have lately been isolated at our institution, an organism historically frequently misidentified as Burkholderia or Pseudomonas. The prevalence of Ralstonia spp. in cystic fibrosis populations has yet to be determined, along with its clinical implications. Seven patients out of the 301 followed at our cystic fibrosis clinic have had Ralstonia strains identified in their respiratory tract. Most strains identified were multi-drug resistant. After aquisition of Ralstonia spp., the patients' clinical course was characterized by more frequent and more severe respiratory infections along with prolonged hospitalizations, greater decline of lung function, and greater mortality. The mortality rate in this group of patients was 86%. No other factor that could explain such a dramatic evolution was identified upon review of patient data. Some of the strains involved were recognized as clones on Pulse Field Electrophoresis Gel, raising the question of person-to-person transmission. New pathogens are identified with the evolution of the microbiota in cystic fibrosis respiratory tracts. In our cohort of patients, acquisition of Ralstonia spp. was associated with dramatic outcomes in terms of disease acceleration and raised mortality rates. It is of critical importance to continue to better define the prevalence and clinical impact of Ralstonia in cystic fibrosis populations."	
24451123		Microbiome	Unique microbial communities persist in individual cystic fibrosis patients throughout a clinical exacerbation.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is caused by inherited mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator gene and results in a lung environment that is highly conducive to polymicrobial infection. Over a lifetime, decreasing bacterial diversity and the presence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in the lung are correlated with worsening lung disease. However, to date, no change in community diversity, overall microbial load or individual microbes has been shown to correlate with the onset of an acute exacerbation in CF patients. We followed 17 adult CF patients throughout the course of clinical exacerbation, treatment and recovery, using deep sequencing and quantitative PCR to characterize spontaneously expectorated sputum samples We identified approximately 170 bacterial genera, 12 of which accounted for over 90% of the total bacterial load across all patient samples. Genera abundant in any single patient sample tended to be detectable in most samples. We found that clinical stages could not be distinguished by absolute Pseudomonas aeruginosa load, absolute total bacterial load or the relative abundance of any individual genus detected, or community diversity. Instead, we found that the microbial structure of each patient's sputum microbiome was distinct and resilient to exacerbation and antibiotic treatment. Consistent with previously reported sputum microbiome studies we found that total and relative abundance of genera at the population level were remarkably stable for individual patients regardless of clinical status. Patient-by-patient analysis of diversity and relative abundance of each individual genus revealed a complex microbial landscape and highlighted the difficulty of identifying a universal microbial signature of exacerbation. Overall, at the genus level, we find no evidence of a microbial signature of clinical stage."	
29901811		The Journal of antimicrobial chemotherapy	Decreased susceptibility of Streptococcus anginosus to vancomycin in a multispecies biofilm is due to increased thickness of the cell wall.	"Streptococcus anginosus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus are often co-isolated from the sputum of cystic fibrosis patients. It was recently shown that S. anginosus is protected from the activity of vancomycin when it grows in a multispecies biofilm with P. aeruginosa and S. aureus. Elucidating the underlying cause of the reduced susceptibility of S. anginosus to vancomycin when growing in a multispecies biofilm with P. aeruginosa and S. aureus. The transcriptome of S. anginosus growing in a multispecies biofilm was compared with that of a S. anginosus monospecies biofilm. Subsequently, transmission electron microscopy was performed to investigate changes in cell wall morphology in S. anginosus and S. aureus in response to growth in multispecies biofilm and to vancomycin treatment. S. anginosus responds to growth in a multispecies biofilm with induction of genes involved in cell envelope biogenesis. Cell walls of S. anginosus cultured in a multispecies biofilm were thicker than in a monospecies biofilm, without antibiotic challenge. S. aureus, when cultured in a multispecies biofilm, does not respond to vancomycin treatment with cell wall thickening. Growth in multispecies biofilms can have an impact on the expression of genes related to cell wall synthesis and on the cell wall thickness of S. anginosus."	
31847106		Microorganisms	Salivary Biomarkers and Oral Microbial Load in Relation to the Dental Status of Adults with Cystic Fibrosis.	"The mutation of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) can modify the physical and chemical properties of saliva, which in turn can affect the oral microflora and oral health in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). The aim of the study was to examine oral health status, salivary properties, and total oral bacteria count in CF adults. Dental status was assessed using the decayed missing filled surfaces (DMF-S) index, and oral clearness using the approximal plaque index (API). The Saliva-Check BUFFER test was used to assess saliva, and real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test to determine the total oral bacteria count. CF patients in comparison to healthy controls showed a higher level of examined clinical indices, higher total oral bacteria count, lower salivary flow rate, lower salivary pH, and increased viscosity. Conclusions: In CF patients, saliva properties, accompanied by insufficient dental care, might be an essential dental caries risk factor. In CF patients, among the etiological factors for dental caries, the bacterial agent seems to be less significant. The frequent and long-term infectious pharmacotherapy can probably explain that. A great deal of the information collected on the oral environment in CF patients, which has helped us understand the etiological conditions for inflammation and infection in this area of the body, indicates that proper dental care can mostly counteract these pathologies."	
37577487		bioRxiv : the preprint server for biology	An In Vitro Medium for Modeling Gut Dysbiosis Associated with Cystic Fibrosis.	"The gut physiology of pediatric and adult persons with cystic fibrosis (pwCF) is altered relative to healthy persons. The CF gut is characterized, in part, as having excess mucus, increased fat content, acidic pH, increased inflammation, increased antibiotic perturbation and the potential for increased oxygen availability. These physiological differences shift nutritional availability and the local environment for intestinal microbes, thus likely driving significant changes in microbial metabolism, colonization and competition with other microbes. The impact of any specific change in this physiological landscape is difficult to parse using human or animal studies. Thus, we have developed a novel culture medium representative of the CF gut environment, inclusive of all the aforementioned features. This medium, called CF-MiPro, maintains CF gut microbiome communities, while significantly shifting non-CF gut microbiome communities toward a CF-like microbial profile, characterized by low Bacteroidetes and high Proteobacteria abundance. This medium is able to maintain this culture composition for up to 5 days of passage. Additionally, microbial communities passaged in CF-MiPro produce significantly less immunomodulatory short chain fatty acids (SCFA), including propionate and butyrate, than communities passaged in MiPro, a culture medium representative of healthy gut physiology, confirming not only a shift in microbial composition but altered community function. Our results support the potential for this in vitro culture medium as a new tool for the study of gut dysbiosis in CF."	
38562856		Research square	Microbial community organization designates distinct pulmonary exacerbation types and predicts treatment outcome in cystic fibrosis.	"Polymicrobial infection of the airways is a hallmark of obstructive lung diseases such as cystic fibrosis (CF), non-CF bronchiectasis, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Pulmonary exacerbations (PEx) in these conditions are associated with accelerated lung function decline and higher mortality rates. An understanding of the microbial underpinnings of PEx is challenged by high inter-patient variability in airway microbial community profiles. We analyzed bacterial communities in 880 CF sputum samples and developed microbiome descriptors to model community reorganization prior to and during 18 PEx. We identified two microbial dysbiosis regimes with opposing ecology and dynamics. Pathogen-governed PEx showed hierarchical community reorganization and reduced diversity, whereas anaerobic bloom PEx displayed stochasticity and increased diversity. A simulation of antimicrobial treatment predicted better efficacy for hierarchically organized communities. This link between PEx type, microbiome organization, and treatment success advances the development of personalized clinical management in CF and, potentially, other obstructive lung diseases."	
31489126		Journal of oral microbiology	Toothbrushes may convey bacteria to the cystic fibrosis lower airways.	"Recent findings indicate that the oral cavity acts as a bacterial reservoir and might contribute to the transmission of bacteria to the lower airways. Control of a potentially pathogenic microbiota might contribute to prevent the establishment of chronic infection in cystic fibrosis. We evaluated the presence of CF microorganisms in saliva and toothbrushes of CF patients and verify their possible transmission to lower airways. : We assessed the presence of , and yeasts in saliva, toothbrushes and sputum of 38 CF patients and assessed the clonal identity of the strains occurring contemporary in multiple sites by PFGE. : At least one of the investigated species was isolated from 60 saliva samples and 23 toothbrushes.  was the most abundant species, followed by Candida spp. 31 patients contemporary had the same species in sputum and saliva/toothbrush: in most cases, clonal identity of the strains among the different sites was confirmed. : Toothbrushes may be sources of oral contamination and might act as reservoirs favoring transmission of potentially pathogenic microorganisms from the environment to the oral cavity and eventually to the LAW. Oral hygiene and toothbrush care are important strategies to prevent CF lung infections."	
30374457		mSystems	"{'i': 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa', '#text': 'Metapopulation Structure of CRISPR-Cas Immunity in  and Its Viruses.'}"	"Viruses that infect the widespread opportunistic pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa have been shown to influence physiology and critical clinical outcomes in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. To understand how CRISPR-Cas immune interactions may contribute to the distribution and coevolution of P. aeruginosa and its viruses, we reconstructed CRISPR arrays from a highly sampled longitudinal data set from CF patients attending the Copenhagen Cystic Fibrosis Clinic in Copenhagen, Denmark (R. L. Marvig, L. M. Sommer, S. Molin, and H. K. Johansen, Nat Genet 47:57-64, 2015, https://doi.org/10.1038/ng.3148). We show that new spacers are not added to or deleted from CRISPR arrays over time within a single patient but do vary among patients in this data set. We compared assembled CRISPR arrays from this data set to CRISPR arrays extracted from 726 additional publicly available P. aeruginosa sequences to show that local diversity in this population encompasses global diversity and that there is no evidence for population structure associated with location or environment sampled. We compare over 3,000 spacers from our global data set to 98 lytic and temperate viruses and proviruses and find a subset of related temperate virus clusters frequently targeted by CRISPR spacers. Highly targeted viruses are matched by different spacers in different arrays, resulting in a pattern of distributed immunity within the global population. Understanding the multiple immune contexts that P. aeruginosa viruses face can be applied to study of P. aeruginosa gene transfer, the spread of epidemic strains in cystic fibrosis patients, and viral control of P. aeruginosa infection.  Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a widespread opportunistic pathogen and a major cause of morbidity and mortality in cystic fibrosis patients. Microbe-virus interactions play a critical role in shaping microbial populations, as viral infections can kill microbial populations or contribute to gene flow among microbes. Investigating how P. aeruginosa uses its CRISPR immune system to evade viral infection aids our understanding of how this organism spreads and evolves alongside its viruses in humans and the environment. Here, we identify patterns of CRISPR targeting and immunity that indicate P. aeruginosa and its viruses evolve in both a broad global population and in isolated human ""islands."" These data set the stage for exploring metapopulation dynamics occurring within and between isolated ""island"" populations associated with CF patients, an essential step to inform future work predicting the specificity and efficacy of virus therapy and the spread of invasive viral elements and pathogenic epidemic bacterial strains."	
35757256		Frontiers in nutrition	"Correlation of Gut Microbiota, Vitamin D Status, and Pulmonary Function Tests in Children With Cystic Fibrosis."	"Children with cystic fibrosis (CF) are expected to have suboptimal serum vitamin D status and altered gut microbiota. The altered gut microbiota is hypothesized to have a pro-inflammatory effect that further complicates the existing respiratory inflammation. Emerging evidence suggests an association between vitamin D and gut microbiota. The aim of this study was to assess the relationships between 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] status, pulmonary function, and fecal bacteria in children with CF. In this cross-sectional study, a total of 35 children with CF (8.7 ± 2.83 years) and 24 controls without CF (9 ± 2.7 years) were included in this study. Serum 25(OH)D status was measured using the Elecsys vitamin D total II assay. In the CF group, gut microbiota composition was assessed using real-time PCR analysis. Pulmonary function tests (PFTs) were measured using spirometry. Comparisons between the CF and non-CF controls were conducted using the independent sample -test. In the CF group, one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to assess differences in PFTs and gut microbiota composition across the three vitamin D subgroups. The correlations between 25(OH)D status and PFTs, or gut microbiota composition, and PFTs with gut microbiota composition were analyzed using the Pearson's correlation coefficient test. Children with CF had significantly lower serum 25(OH)D levels compared with children without CF (44.3 ± 22.4 vs. 59 ± 25.5, respectively,  = 0.026). Children with CF with optimal serum 25(OH)D level had significantly higher levels of , and total bacteria ( = 0.007,  = 0.007, and  = 0.022, respectively). The level of  was found to be significantly higher in mild forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1) compared with moderate FEV1 ( = 0.032), whereas the level of the other bacteria species was comparable across FEV1 severity groups. Our findings may encourage studies that target and modify gut microbiota to potentially achieve better outcomes in terms of respiratory function in CF."	
27004018		Clinical pulmonary medicine	Understanding persistent bacterial lung infections: clinical implications informed by the biology of the microbiota and biofilms.	"The infections found in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cystic fibrosis, and bronchiectasis share a number of clinical similarities, the most striking of which is bacterial persistence despite the use of antibiotics. These infections have been clinically described using culture-based methods usually performed on sputum samples, and treatment has been directed towards the bacteria found in this manner. Unfortunately the clinical response to antibiotics is frequently not predictable based on these cultures, and the role of these cultured organisms in disease progression has been debated. The past 20 years have seen a revolution in the techniques used to describe bacterial populations and their growth patterns. These techniques have revealed these persistent lung infections are vastly more complicated than described by traditional, and still widely relied upon, sputum cultures. A better understanding of the initiation and evolution of these infections, and better clinical tools to describe them, will dramatically alter the way patients are cared for. While clinical tests to more accurately describe these infections are not yet available, the better appreciation of these infections afforded by current science should enlighten practitioners as to the care of their patients with these diseases."	
30627668		International journal of respiratory and pulmonary medicine	A Comparison between Two Pathophysiologically Different yet Microbiologically Similar Lung Diseases: Cystic Fibrosis and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are chronic pulmonary diseases that affect ~70,000 and 251 million individuals worldwide, respectively. Although these two diseases have distinctly different pathophysiologies, both cause chronic respiratory insufficiency that erodes quality of life and causes significant morbidity and eventually death. In both CF and COPD, the respiratory microbiome plays a major contributing role in disease progression and morbidity. Pulmonary pathogens can differ dramatically during various stages of each disease and frequently cause acute worsening of lung function due to disease exacerbation. Despite some similarities, outcome and timing/type of exacerbation can also be quite different between CF and COPD. Given these clinical distinctions, both patients and physicians should be aware of emerging therapeutic options currently being offered or in development for the treatment of lung infections in individuals with CF and COPD. Although interventions are available that prolong life and mitigate morbidity, neither disorder is curable. Both acute and chronic pulmonary infections contribute to an inexorable downward course and may trigger exacerbations, culminating in loss of lung function or respiratory failure. Knowledge of the pulmonary pathogens causing these infections, their clinical presentation, consequences, and management are, therefore, critical. In this review, we compare and contrast CF and COPD, including underlying causes, general outcomes, features of the lung microbiome, and potential treatment strategies."	
38264413		The microbe	Integrating airway microbiome and blood proteomics data to identify multi-omic networks associated with response to pulmonary infection.	"Host response to airway infections can vary widely. Cystic fibrosis (CF) pulmonary exacerbations provide an opportunity to better understand the interplay between respiratory microbes and the host. This study aimed to investigate the observed heterogeneity in airway infection recovery by analyzing microbiome and host response (i.e., blood proteome) data collected during the onset of 33 pulmonary infection events. We used sparse multiple canonical correlation network (SmCCNet) analysis to integrate these two types of -omics data along with a clinical measure of recovery. Four microbe-protein SmCCNet subnetworks at infection onset were identified that strongly correlate with recovery. Our findings support existing knowledge regarding CF airway infections. Additionally, we discovered novel microbe-protein subnetworks that are associated with recovery and merit further investigation."	
28604331		Journal of medical microbiology	"{'i': 'Prevotella', '#text': 'Evidence of persistence of  spp. in the cystic fibrosis lung.'}"	"spp. represent a diverse genus of bacteria, frequently identified by both culture and molecular methods in the lungs of patients with chronic respiratory infection. However, their role in the pathogenesis of chronic lung infection is unclear; therefore, a more complete understanding of their molecular epidemiology is required. Pulsed Field Gel Electrophoresis (PFGE) and Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) assays were developed and used to determine the degree of similarity between sequential isolates (=42) from cystic fibrosis (CF) patients during periods of clinical stability and exacerbation. A wide diversity of PFGE and RAPD banding patterns were observed, demonstrating considerable within-genus heterogeneity. In 8/12 (66.7 %) cases, where the same species was identified at sequential time points, pre- and post-antibiotic treatment of an exacerbation, PFGE/RAPD profiles were highly similar or identical. Congruence was observed between PFGE and RAPD (adjusted Rand coefficient, 0.200; adjusted Wallace  0.459,  0.128). Furthermore, some isolates could not be adequately assigned a species name on the basis of 16S rRNA analysis: these isolates had identical PFGE/RAPD profiles to  . The similarity in PFGE and RAPD banding patterns observed in sequential CF  isolates may be indicative of the persistence of this genus in the CF lung. Further work is required to determine the clinical significance of this finding, and to more accurately distinguish differences in pathogenicity between species."	
38707844		ISME communications	"{'i': 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa', '#text': 'Co-occurring microflora and mucin drive  diversification and pathoadaptation.'}"	"While several environmental factors contribute to the evolutionary diversification of the pathogenic bacterium  during cystic fibrosis lung infections, relatively little is known about the impact of the surrounding microbiota. By using  experimental evolution we show that the presence of ,  or them both, prevent the evolution of loss of virulence, which repeatedly occurs in the absence of these species due to mutations in regulators of the  Quinolone Signal quorum sensing system,  and . Moreover, the strength of the effect of co-occurring species is attenuated through changes in the physical environment by the addition of mucin, resulting in selection for phenotypes resembling those evolved in the absence of the co-occurring species. Together, our findings show that variation in mucosal environment and the surrounding polymicrobial environment can determine the evolutionary trajectory of , partly explaining its diversification and pathoadaptation from acute to chronic phenotype during cystic fibrosis lung infections."	
24910746		Iranian journal of pediatrics	Effects of probiotics on quality of life in children with cystic fibrosis; a randomized controlled trial.	"Patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) usually have abnormal intestinal microbiota and dysregulated immune mediators due to massive exposure to antibiotics. Probiotics as immunomodulatory and anti-inflammatory substances are considered to improve both clinical and biochemical intestinal and pulmonary function in CF patients. We decided to investigate the effects of probiotics on quality of life and pulmonary exacerbations in children with cystic fibrosis. In a prospective, randomized, controlled clinical trial, 37 CF patients (2-12 years old) were randomly divided into two groups. 20 patients of probiotic group took probiotics (2×10(9)CFU/d) for one month while 17 patients of control group took placebo capsules. Quality of life was determined using PedsQL™4.0 questionnaire at the beginning, then three and six months after completing the treatment period. Rate of pulmonary exacerbation in probiotic group patients was also evaluated during three months after intervention and compared to the same three months of the previous year. Results were analyzed using SPSS (11.5). P<0.05 was considered statistically significant. Significant improvement was observed in the mean total score of parent reported quality of life among probiotic group patients in comparison with placebo group at 3(rd) month (P=0.01), but this was not significant at 6(th) month of probiotic treatment. Rate of pulmonary exacerbation was significantly reduced among probiotic group (P<0.01). Probiotics are considered as useful nutritional supplements on reducing number of pulmonary exacerbations and improving quality of life in patients with cystic fibrosis. Effects of probiotics seem to be temporary and probably continuous ingestion might have more stable improving effects on quality of life."	
25890660		The Lancet. Respiratory medicine	"Corrections. The effect of long-term macrolide treatment on respiratory microbiota composition in non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis: an analysis from the randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled BLESS trial."		
24367285		Metabolomics : Official journal of the Metabolomic Society	"{'i': 'Pseudomonal', '#text': 'A relationship between  growth behaviour and cystic fibrosis patient lung function identified in a metabolomic investigation.'}"	"Chronic polymicrobial lung infections in adult cystic fibrosis patients are typically dominated by high levels of . Determining the impact of  growth on airway secretion composition is fundamental to understanding both the behaviour of this pathogen , and its relationship with other potential colonising species. We hypothesised that the marked differences in the phenotypes of clinical isolates would be reflected in the metabolite composition of spent culture media. H NMR spectroscopy was used to characterise the impact of  growth on a synthetic medium as part of an  CF lower airways model system. Comparisons of 15 CF clinical isolates were made and four distinct metabolomic clusters identified. Highly significant relationships between  isolate cluster membership and both patient lung function (FEV) and spent culture pH were identified. This link between clinical isolate growth behaviour and FEV indicates characterisation of  growth may find application in predicting patient lung function while the significant divergence in metabolite production and consumption observed between CF clinical isolates suggests dominant isolate characteristics have the potential to play both a selective role in microbiota composition and influence pseudomonal behaviour ."	
27478895		PloS one	Correction: Pyrosequencing Unveils Cystic Fibrosis Lung Microbiome Differences Associated with a Severe Lung Function Decline.	[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0156807.].	
37839715		International journal of antimicrobial agents	Development of inhalation powders containing lactic acid bacteria with antimicrobial activity against Pseudomonas aeruginosa.	"The aim of the project was to develop and characterise powders containing a probiotic (Lactiplantibacillus plantarum [Lpb. plantarum], Lacticaseibacillus rhamnosus, or Lactobacillus acidophilus) to be administered to the lung for the containment of pathogen growth in patients with lung infections. The optimised spray drying process for the powder manufacturing was able to preserve viability of the bacteria, which decreased of only one log unit and was maintained up to 30 days. Probiotic powders showed a high respirability (42%-50% of particles had a size < 5 µm) suitable for lung deposition and were proven safe on A549 and Calu-3 cells up to a concentration of 10 colony-forming units/mL. The Lpb. plantarum adhesion to both cell lines tested was at least 10%. Surprisingly, Lpb. plantarum powder was bactericidal at a concentration of 10 colony-forming units/mL on P. aeruginosa, whereas the other two strains were bacteriostatic. This work represents a promising starting point to consider a probiotic inhalation powder a value in keeping the growth of pathogenic microflora in check during the antibiotic inhalation therapy suspension in cystic fibrosis treatment regimen. This approach could also be advantageous for interfering competitively with pathogenic bacteria and promoting the restoration of the healthy microbiota."	
30733864		Multidisciplinary respiratory medicine	Comparison of different conditions for DNA extraction in sputum - a pilot study.	"The analysis of microbiome in respiratory samples is a topic of great interest in chronic respiratory diseases. The method used to prepare sputum samples for microbiome analysis is very heterogeneous. The selection of the most suitable methodology for DNA extraction is fundamental to have the most representative data. The objective of this study was to compare different conditions for DNA extraction from sputum in adult patients with bronchiectasis. Five sputum samples from bronchiectasis patients were collected at the Policlinico Hospital in Milan, Italy. Eighteen conditions for DNA extraction were compared, including two enzyme-based (Roche and Zymo) and one beads-based (Mobio) technique. These techniques were tested with/without Dithiothreitol (DTT) and with/without lysostaphin (0.18 and 0.36 mg/mL) step. DNA was quantified, tested using Real-time PCR for 16S rDNA and  and, then, microbiome was evaluated. Although 16S rDNA was similarly detected across all the different techniques, Roche kit gave the highest DNA yield. The lowest Ct values for Real-time PCR for  was identified when lysostaphin was added. Considering genera from microbiome, alpha diversity indices did not show any significant differences between techniques, while relative abundances were more similar in presence of DTT. None of the conditions emerged to be superior to the others even if enzyme-based kits seem to be needed in order to have a higher extraction yield."	
36366805		Nutrition and health	Probiotic knowledge of adults with cystic fibrosis is limited but is associated with probiotic use: A cross-sectional survey study.	"Probiotics are used by people with cystic fibrosis (CF) and other chronic diseases to manage gastrointestinal symptoms.  To describe probiotic knowledge; its relationship with probiotic use, probiotic information sources and factors influencing choice in adults with CF and a general population control group.  A cross-sectional questionnaire study was conducted in adults with CF (n = 205) and Controls (n = 158). Probiotic knowledge was compared between CF and Controls using a knowledge score (maximum 5) based on predefined criteria: (1a) bacteria/microorganism; (1b) live; (2a) administered; (2b) adequate dose and (3) health benefit, using independent samples t-test. Two-way analysis of variance explored knowledge scores between CF and Control and between  and  groups. Chi-square and Fisher's exact tests compared knowledge criterion, probiotic sources and influences on probiotic choice between groups. Thematic analysis of open-text responses explored probiotic-related knowledge and influences on probiotic decision making.  Knowledge scores (mean ± SD) did not differ between CF (1.70 ± 1.12) and Controls (1.89 ± 0.99),  = 0.13. Probiotic use was associated with knowledge score ( < 0.001). More CF  than  correctly identified criteria 1a (65% vs. 38%), 1b (16% vs. 0%), 2a (45% vs. 22%) and 3 (73% vs. 42%) (all  < 0.005). CF participants considered 'dairy yoghurt' (69%), 'live cultures' (64%) and 'fermented foods' (37%) as 'all/mostly' probiotic sources. The internet was the commonest source of probiotic-related information.  Probiotic knowledge and use were associated in adults with CF. Understanding of probiotic characteristics and sources were limited. Education is needed to help guide patient probiotic decision making."	
38435430		Contemporary clinical trials communications	"{'sub': '3', '#text': 'Vitamin D and prebiotics for intestinal health in cystic fibrosis: Rationale and design for a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, 2 x 2 trial of administration of prebiotics and cholecalciferol (vitamin D) (Pre-D trial) in adults with cystic fibrosis.'}"	"Individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF) have dysfunctional intestinal microbiota and increased gastrointestinal (GI) inflammation also known as GI dysbiosis. It is hypothesized that administration of high-dose cholecalciferol (vitamin D) together with a prebiotic (inulin) will be effective, and possibly additive or synergistic, in reducing CF-related GI and airway dysbiosis. Thus, a 2 x 2 factorial design, placebo-controlled, double-blinded, pilot and feasibility, clinical trial was proposed to test this hypothesis. Forty adult participants with CF were block-randomized into one of four groups: 1) high-dose oral vitamin D (50,000 IU weekly) plus oral prebiotic placebo daily; 2) oral prebiotic (12 g inulin daily) plus oral placebo vitamin D weekly; 3) combined oral vitamin D weekly and oral prebiotic inulin daily; and 4) oral vitamin D placebo weekly and oral prebiotic placebo. The primary endpoints included 12-week changes in the microbial bacterial communities, gut and airway microbiota richness and diversity before and after the intervention. This pilot study examined whether vitamin D with or without prebiotics supplementation was feasible, changed airway and gut microbiota, and reduced dysbiosis, which in turn, may improve health outcomes and quality of life of patients with CF."	
37817810		Frontiers in medicine	"Editorial: Current omics-based approaches as tools for improving the understanding, diagnosis and management of inflammatory lung disease."		
28649402		NPJ biofilms and microbiomes	Evolutionary adaptations of biofilms infecting cystic fibrosis lungs promote mechanical toughness by adjusting polysaccharide production.	"Biofilms are communities of microbes embedded in a matrix of extracellular polymeric substances, largely polysaccharides. Multiple types of extracellular polymeric substances can be produced by a single bacterial strain. The distinct polymer components of biofilms are known to provide chemical protection, but little is known about how distinct extracellular polysaccharides may also protect biofilms against mechanical stresses such as shear or phagocytic engulfment. Decades-long infections of  biofilms in the lungs of cystic fibrosis patients are natural models for studies of biofilm fitness under pressure from antibiotics and the immune system. In cystic fibrosis infections, production of the extracellular polysaccharide alginate has long been known to increase with time and to chemically protect biofilms. More recently, it is being recognized that chronic cystic fibrosis infections also evolve to increase production of another extracellular polysaccharide, Psl; much less is known about Psl's protective benefits to biofilms. We use oscillatory bulk rheology, on biofilms grown from longitudinal clinical isolates and from genetically-manipulated lab strains, to show that increased Psl stiffens biofilms and increases biofilm toughness, which is the energy cost to cause the biofilm to yield mechanically. Further, atomic force microscopy measurements reveal greater intercellular cohesion for higher Psl expression. Of the three types of extracellular polysaccharides produced by , only Psl increases the stiffness. Stiffening by Psl requires CdrA, a protein that binds to mannose groups on Psl and is a likely cross-linker for the Psl components of the biofilm matrix. We compare the elastic moduli of biofilms to the estimated stresses exerted by neutrophils during phagocytosis, and infer that increased Psl could confer a mechanical protection against phagocytic clearance."	
29056926		Frontiers in microbiology	"{'i': 'Pandoraea pulmonicola', '#text': 'Highly Diversified  Population during Chronic Colonization in Cystic Fibrosis.'}"	"Several environmental bacteria are considered as opportunistic pathogens in cystic fibrosis (CF) and are able to persistently colonize the CF respiratory tract (CFRT). Beside  and  complex,  spp. are defined as pathogenic. During chronic colonization, adaptive evolution and diversified population have been demonstrated, notably for . However, the persistence of  in the CFRT remains largely unexplored. We studied genomic and phenotypic traits of  isolates successively recovered from the airways of a single CF patient and relate the results to qualitative and quantitative evolution of other cultivable pathogens and to patient clinical status. A total of 31 isolates recovered from 18 sputum samples over a 7-year period in a single CF patient were studied. Genome dynamics was assessed by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, ERIC-PCR fingerprinting and 16S rRNA gene PCR-temporal temperature gel electrophoresis. Phenotypic features included antimicrobial susceptibility, motility, biofilm production, and virulence in  model. Variability was observed for all the characteristics studied leading to highly diversified patterns (24 patterns) for the 31 clonally related isolates. Some of these modifications, mainly genomic events were concomitantly observed with CFRT microbiota composition shifts and with severe exacerbations. The diversity of  population studied, observed for isolates recovered from successive samples but also within a sample suggested that existence of a diversified population may represent a patho-adaptive strategy for host persistence in the heterogeneous and fluctuating CFRT environment."	
30556040		Hepatology communications	Diet-Induced Dysbiosis and Genetic Background Synergize With Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane Conductance Regulator Deficiency to Promote Cholangiopathy in Mice.	"The most typical expression of cystic fibrosis (CF)-related liver disease is a cholangiopathy that can progress to cirrhosis. We aimed to determine the potential impact of environmental and genetic factors on the development of CF-related cholangiopathy in mice. Cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator () mice and   littermates in a congenic C57BL/6J background were fed a high medium-chain triglyceride (MCT) diet. Liver histopathology, fecal microbiota, intestinal inflammation and barrier function, bile acid homeostasis, and liver transcriptome were analyzed in 3-month-old males. Subsequently, MCT diet was changed for chow with polyethylene glycol (PEG) and the genetic background for a mixed C57BL/6J;129/Ola background (resulting from three backcrosses), to test their effect on phenotype. C57BL/6J   mice on an MCT diet developed cholangiopathy features that were associated with dysbiosis, primarily  enrichment, and low-grade intestinal inflammation. Compared with   littermates, they displayed increased intestinal permeability and a lack of secondary bile acids together with a low expression of ileal bile acid transporters. Dietary-induced (chow with PEG) changes in gut microbiota composition largely prevented the development of cholangiopathy in   mice. Regardless of  status, mice in a mixed C57BL/6J;129/Ola background developed fatty liver under an MCT diet. The   mice in the mixed background showed no cholangiopathy, which was not explained by a difference in gut microbiota or intestinal permeability, compared with congenic mice. Transcriptomic analysis of the liver revealed differential expression, notably of immune-related genes, in mice of the congenic versus mixed background. , our findings suggest that CFTR deficiency causes abnormal intestinal permeability, which, combined with diet-induced dysbiosis and immune-related genetic susceptibility, promotes CF-related cholangiopathy."	
33281770		Frontiers in microbiology	"{'i': ['Odoribacter splanchnicus', 'in vitro'], '#text': 'Novel  Strain and Its Outer Membrane Vesicles Exert Immunoregulatory Effects .'}"	", belonging to the order Bacteroidales, is a common, short-chain fatty acid producing member of the human intestinal microbiota. A decreased abundance of  has been linked to different microbiota-associated diseases, such as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, cystic fibrosis and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). The type strain of  has been genome-sequenced, but otherwise very little is known about this anaerobic bacterium. The species surfaces in many microbiota studies and, consequently, comprehension on its interactions with the host is needed. In this study, we isolated a novel strain of  from a healthy fecal donor, identified it by genome sequencing and addressed its adhesive, epithelium reinforcing and immunoregulatory properties. Our results show that  strain 57 is non-adherent to enterocytes or mucus, does not reinforce nor compromise Caco-2 monolayer integrity and most likely harbors penta-acylated, less endotoxic lipid A as part of its lipopolysaccharide (LPS) structure based on the lack of gene  and  results on low-level NF-κB activity. The studies by transmission electron microscopy revealed that  produces outer membrane vesicles (OMV).  cells, culture supernatant i.e., spent medium or OMVs did not induce interleukin-8 (IL-8) response in HT-29 enterocyte cells suggesting a very low proinflammatory capacity. On the contrary, the treatment of HT-29 cells with  cells, spent medium or OMVs prior to exposure to  LPS elicited a significant decrease in IL-8 production as compared to  LPS treatment alone. Moreover,  spent supernatant induced IL-10 production by immune cells, suggesting anti-inflammatory activity. Our  findings indicate that  and its effector molecules transported in OMVs could potentially exert anti-inflammatory action in the gut epithelium. Taken together,  seems to be a commensal with a primarily beneficial interaction with the host."	
21326915		Gut microbes	Comparing the microbiota of the cystic fibrosis lung and human gut.		
35122749		Chest	Carriage and Transmission of Macrolide Resistance Genes in Patients With Chronic Respiratory Conditions and Their Close Contacts.	"Long-term macrolide therapy has been shown to provide benefit to those with a range of chronic respiratory conditions. However, concerns remain about the impact of macrolide exposure on the carriage and abundance of antibiotic resistance genes within the oropharynx. The potential for onward transmission of resistance from macrolide recipients to their close contacts also is poorly understood. Does long-term macrolide use impact carriage of resistance within the oropharyngeal microbiota in people with chronic respiratory conditions and risk of onward transmission to their close contacts? Oropharyngeal swabs were collected from 93 individuals with chronic respiratory conditions, 53 of whom were receiving long-term macrolide therapy. An oropharyngeal swab also was collected from a close cohabiting contact of each patient. Detection and abundance of 10 macrolide-associated resistance genes with the potential to disseminate via horizontal gene transfer were assessed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis. Detection of resistance genes in macrolide recipients was comparable with that in nonrecipients. However, the normalized gene abundance of erm(B) was significantly higher in the macrolide recipient group (P = .045). Among the close contacts, no between-group differences in resistance gene detection or abundance were identified. Within-group analysis showed that the detection of erm(F) and mef in macrolide recipients, but not nonrecipients, was associated significantly with detection in close contacts (P = .003 and P = .004, respectively). However, between-group analysis showed that treatment group did not predict cocarriage between patients and their close contacts (P > .05 for each gene). Although levels of erm(B) were higher in those receiving long-term macrolide therapy and evidence of gene cocarriage with close contacts was found, no evidence was found that macrolide use increased the onward transmission risk to their close contacts. This study therefore addresses concerns that long-term macrolide therapy could promote the dissemination of transmissible macrolide resistance."	
38719750		Life science alliance	"{'i': 'Candida', '#text': 'The immune and microbial homeostasis determines the -mast cells cross-talk in celiac disease.'}"	"Celiac disease (CD) is an autoimmune enteropathy resulting from an interaction between diet, genome, and immunity. Although many patients respond to a gluten-free diet, in a substantive number of individuals, the intestinal injury persists. Thus, other factors might amplify the ongoing inflammation.  is a commensal fungus that is well adapted to the intestinal life. However, specific conditions increase  pathogenicity. The hypothesis that  may be a trigger in CD has been proposed after the observation of similarity between a fungal wall component and two CD-related gliadin T-cell epitopes. However, despite being implicated in intestinal disorders,  may also protect against immune pathologies highlighting a more intriguing role in the gut. Herein, we postulated that a state of chronic inflammation associated with microbial dysbiosis and leaky gut are favorable conditions that promote  pathogenicity eventually contributing to CD pathology via a mast cells (MC)-IL-9 axis. However, the restoration of immune and microbial homeostasis promotes a beneficial -MC cross-talk favoring the attenuation of CD pathology to alleviate CD pathology and symptoms."	
38343811		medRxiv : the preprint server for health sciences	"{'sub': '3', '#text': 'Vitamin D and Prebiotics for Intestinal Health in Cystic Fibrosis: Rationale and design for a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, 2 × 2 trial of administration of prebiotics and cholecalciferol (vitamin D) (Pre-D Trial) in adults with cystic fibrosis.'}"	"Individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF) have dysfunctional intestinal microbiota and increased gastrointestinal (GI) inflammation also known as GI dysbiosis. It is hypothesized that administration of high-dose cholecalciferol (vitamin D) together with a prebiotic (inulin) will be effective, and possibly additive or synergistic, in reducing CF-related GI dysbiosis and improving intestinal functions. Thus, a 2 × 2 factorial design, placebo-controlled, double-blind, clinical trial was proposed to test this hypothesis. Forty adult participants with CF will be block-randomized into one of four groups: 1) high-dose oral vitamin D (50,000 IU weekly) plus oral prebiotic placebo daily; 2) oral prebiotic (12 g inulin daily) plus oral placebo vitamin D weekly; 3) combined oral vitamin D weekly and oral prebiotic inulin daily; and 4) oral vitamin D placebo weekly and oral prebiotic placebo. The primary endpoints will include 12-week changes in the reduced relative abundance of gammaproteobacteria, and gut microbiota richness and diversity before and after the intervention. This clinical study will examine whether vitamin D with or without prebiotics will improve intestinal health and reduce GI dysbiosis, which in turn, should improve health outcomes and quality of life of patients with CF."	
38940597		Journal of bacteriology	"{'sub': ['2', '2'], '#text': 'Dpr-mediated HO resistance contributes to streptococcus survival in a cystic fibrosis airway model system.'}"	"The cystic fibrosis (CF) lung environment is conducive to the colonization of bacteria as polymicrobial biofilms, which are associated with poor clinical outcomes for persons with CF (pwCF).  spp. are highly prevalent in the CF airway, but its role in the CF lung microbiome is poorly understood. Some studies have shown  spp. to be associated with better clinical outcomes for pwCF, while others show that high abundance of  spp. is correlated with exacerbations. Our lab previously reported a polymicrobial culture system consisting of four CF-relevant pathogens that can be used to study microbial behavior in a more clinically relevant setting. Here, we use this model system to identify genetic pathways that are important for  survival in the context of the polymicrobial community. We identified genes related to reactive oxygen species as differentially expressed in  monoculture versus growth of this microbe in the mixed community. Genetic studies identified Dpr as important for  survival in the community. We show that Dpr, a DNA-binding ferritin-like protein, and PerR, a peroxide-responsive transcriptional regulator of Dpr, are important for protecting  from phenazine-mediated toxicity in co-culture with  and when exposed to hydrogen peroxide, both of which mimic the CF lung environment. Characterizing such interactions in a clinically relevant model system contributes to our understanding of microbial behavior in the context of polymicrobial biofilm infections. spp. are recognized as a highly prevalent pathogen in cystic fibrosis (CF) airway infections. However, the role of this microbe in clinical outcomes for persons with CF is poorly understood. Here, we leverage a polymicrobial community system previously developed by our group to model CF airway infections as a tool to investigate a - interaction involving reactive oxygen species (ROS). We show that protection against ROS is required for  survival in a clinically relevant polymicrobial system. Using this model system to study interspecies interactions contributes to our broader understanding of the complex role of  spp. in the CF lung."	
38982876		Journal of the science of food and agriculture	The effect of Lactobacillus reuteri on pulmonary function test and growth of cystic fibrosis patients.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) patients frequently experience gut microbiota dysbiosis. Probiotic supplementation is a potential therapeutic approach to modify gut microbiota and improve CF management through the gut-lung axis. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of Lactobacillus reuteri supplementation on pulmonary function test, respiratory symptoms and growth in CF patients. A randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial was carried out on 40 children with CF aged from 6 to 20 years. Participants were designated to receive either L. reuteri or placebo daily for 4 months. Pulmonary function tests, weight, height and body mass index (BMI) z-scores were measured pre and post treatment. The median baseline BMI of the patients was 16.28 kg m. A significant change in the probiotic group's BMI z-score after the study period was observed (P = 0.034) but not for weight and height z-scores (P > 0.05). After treatment, Pseudomonas aeruginosa grew in sputum cultures of seven in the placebo and one patient in the intervention group (P = 0.03) while at baseline it grew in the sputum of four patients in each group. There was no significant difference in forced expiratory volume in the first second, forced expiratory flow at 25-75% or forced vital capacity change between the two groups after the treatment period (P > 0.05). Additionally, no significant differences were found in pulmonary exacerbations, hospitalization frequencies or COVID-19 infection between the two groups during the study (P > 0.05). The results suggest that L. reuteri supplementation may impact the growth of severely malnourished CF patients. Furthermore, it may be concluded that this strain might reduce P. aeruginosa in the sputum culture of CF patients. © 2024 Society of Chemical Industry."	
31649076		Microbiology resource announcements	"Complete Genome Sequence of the Multidrug-Resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa Endemic Houston-1 Strain, Isolated from a Pediatric Patient with Cystic Fibrosis and Assembled Using Oxford Nanopore and Illumina Sequencing."	Hybrid  assembly of Illumina/Nanopore sequence data produced complete circular sequences of the chromosome and a plasmid for the multidrug-resistant  Houston-1 strain. This provides a high-quality representative sequence for a lineage endemic to a pediatric cystic fibrosis care center at Texas Children's Hospital.	
36153609		Pilot and feasibility studies	A pilot study investigating the effects of a manuka honey sinus rinse compared to a standard sinus rinse on sino-nasal outcome test scores in cystic fibrosis patients.	"People with cystic fibrosis (CF) are prone to bacterial respiratory infections; these are often antibiotic resistant, are difficult to treat, and impact on the quality of life and lung function. The upper respiratory tract can act as a reservoir for these pathogens, and as part of clinical care, sinus rinses are used to alleviate symptoms in the upper airway. We have developed a sinus rinse containing manuka honey, to identify whether it can help improve symptoms or reduce the bacterial load. We will undertake a randomised controlled trial where 30 adults with CF will be recruited and randomised to either the control or intervention group. Both groups will follow a sinus rinse protocol for 30 days (± 7 days); the control group will use the standard of care rinse, and the intervention group will use a manuka honey rinse. Both groups will provide samples at day 0 and day 30. The primary outcome measure will be a change in the 22-item Sino-Nasal Outcome Test (SNOT-22) score. Secondary outcomes will include changes to quality of life (questionnaire), bacterial load/community composition, and sputum viscosity. This trial will look at the use of a manuka honey-infused sinus rinse solution on patients diagnosed with cystic fibrosis (CF) suffering with sinusitis; it will allow us to determine the efficacy of the manuka honey sinus rinse compared to standard rinse and will allow us to determine if molecular bacterial diversity analysis will provide in-depth information beyond the usual conventional microbiological. It will allow us to determine the feasibility of recruiting participants to this type of trial, allow us to check participant compliance with the protocol, and inform future studies. Approval was obtained from the Research Ethics Committee Wales REC7 reference 18/WA/0319. Results of this study will be published at international conferences and in peer-reviewed journals; they will also be presented to the relevant stakeholders and research networks. ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier NCT04589897 (retrospectively registered)."	
30283824		Journal of infectious pulmonary diseases	"{'i': 'Bordetella', '#text': 'Cystic Fibrosis Mice Develop Spontaneous Chronic  Airway Infections.'}"	"Chronic pulmonary disease and infection is the primary cause of morbidity and mortality in people with cystic fibrosis (CF). Though , is most commonly found in the airways of individuals with CF, there is increasing appreciation for the diversity of the CF microbiome, including other taxa such as . Here we describe the identification and impact of  infection in CF mice, which previously have not been thought to develop spontaneous airway infections. We determined that CF mice are more susceptible to the  infections, and less able to resolve the infection than non-CF mice. Moreover, in both CF and non-CF mice,  infections lead to markedly reduced respiratory rates and a CF-specific immune response. These results establish the CF mouse model as an important tool for the study of CF-relevant infection and highlight the potential contribution of  to CF clinical pathology."	
33981192		International journal of integrated care	The Evaluation of Determinants and Impacts of Co-Production in Healthcare: A Research Protocol for OPAT in Cystic Fibrosis.	"Co-production is more and more considered as a promising tool for dealing with the main challenges in the health sector (e.g., growing rates of chronic diseases, budget constraints, higher patients' expectations of the quality and the value of services, equity to access of care, etc.). However, there is still little evidence on co-production determinants and impacts. This research protocol aims to present a framework to assess the determinants and impacts of the co-productive approach in healthcare delivery on patients, professionals, and providers from economic, organisational, and clinical perspectives. To this end, the paper examines the co-produced outpatient parenteral antimicrobial therapy (OPAT), applied to cystic fibrosis patients in an Italian hospital. A mixed methods approach will be adopted and data will be collected through semi-structured interviews and surveys of patients, caregivers, and professionals; biological samples of patients; archival sources. Then, the analyses to be performed are the following: (i) cost evaluation, (ii) content, (iii) descriptive and inferential statistical, (iv) microbiome analysis, and (v) desk analysis. The research protocol contributes to both theoretical and practical knowledge. It represents the first attempt to develop a systematic analytical framework for the evaluation of co-production in healthcare. Moreover, the findings gathered within the study will provide evidence to support policy makers and managers in decision-making and managerial processes within the health service."	
32827431		Medical mycology	"Under nonlimiting iron conditions pyocyanin is a major antifungal molecule, and differences between prototypic Pseudomonas aeruginosa strains."	"Airways of immunocompromised patients, or individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF), are common ground for Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Aspergillus fumigatus infections. Hence, in such a microenvironment both pathogens compete for resources. While under limiting iron conditions the siderophore pyoverdine is the most effective antifungal P. aeruginosa product, we now provide evidence that under nonlimiting iron conditions P. aeruginosa supernatants lack pyoverdine but still possess considerable antifungal activity. Spectrometric analyses of P. aeruginosa supernatants revealed the presence of phenazines, such as pyocyanin, only under nonlimiting iron conditions. Supernatants of quorum sensing mutants of strain PA14, defective in phenazine production, as well as supernatants of the P. aeruginosa strain PAO1, lacked pyocyanin, and were less inhibitory toward A. fumigatus biofilms under nonlimiting iron conditions. When blood as a natural source of iron was present during P. aeruginosa supernatant production, pyoverdine was absent, and phenazines, including pyocyanin, appeared, resulting in an antifungal effect on A. fumigatus biofilms. Pure pyocyanin reduced A. fumigatus biofilm metabolism. In summary, P. aeruginosa has mechanisms to compete with A. fumigatus under limiting and non-limiting iron conditions, and can switch from iron-denial-based to toxin-based antifungal activity. This has implications for the evolution of the microbiome in clinical settings where the two pathogens co-exist. Important differences in the iron response of P. aeruginosa laboratory strains PA14 and PAO1 were also uncovered."	
37333206		bioRxiv : the preprint server for biology	Defining Microbial Community Functions in Chronic Human Infection with Metatranscriptomics.	"Chronic polymicrobial infections (cPMIs) harbor complex bacterial communities with diverse metabolic capacities, leading to competitive and cooperative interactions. Although the microbes present in cPMIs have been established through culture-dependent and-independent methods, the key functions that drive different cPMIs and the metabolic activities of these complex communities remain unknown. To address this knowledge gap, we analyzed 102 published metatranscriptomes collected from cystic fibrosis sputum (CF) and chronic wound infections (CW) to identify key bacterial members and functions in cPMIs. Community composition analysis identified a high prevalence of pathogens, particularly  and , and anaerobic members of the microbiota, including  Functional profiling with HUMANn3 and SAMSA2 revealed that while functions involved in bacterial competition, oxidative stress response, and virulence were conserved across both chronic infection types, >40% of the functions were differentially expressed (padj < 0.05, fold-change >2). Higher expression of antibiotic resistance and biofilm functions were observed in CF, while tissue destructive enzymes and oxidative stress response functions were highly expressed in CW samples. Of note, strict anaerobes had negative correlations with traditional pathogens in both CW ( = -0.43) and CF ( = -0.27) samples and they significantly contributed to the expression of these functions. Additionally, we show microbial communities have unique expression patterns and distinct organisms fulfill the expression of key functions in each site, indicating the infection environment strongly influences bacterial physiology and that community structure influences function. Collectively, our findings indicate that community composition and function should guide treatment strategies for cPMIs."	
27677788		mBio	"Exposing the Three-Dimensional Biogeography and Metabolic States of Pathogens in Cystic Fibrosis Sputum via Hydrogel Embedding, Clearing, and rRNA Labeling."	"Physiological resistance to antibiotics confounds the treatment of many chronic bacterial infections, motivating researchers to identify novel therapeutic approaches. To do this effectively, an understanding of how microbes survive in vivo is needed. Though much can be inferred from bulk approaches to characterizing complex environments, essential information can be lost if spatial organization is not preserved. Here, we introduce a tissue-clearing technique, termed MiPACT, designed to retain and visualize bacteria with associated proteins and nucleic acids in situ on various spatial scales. By coupling MiPACT with hybridization chain reaction (HCR) to detect rRNA in sputum samples from cystic fibrosis (CF) patients, we demonstrate its ability to survey thousands of bacteria (or bacterial aggregates) over millimeter scales and quantify aggregation of individual species in polymicrobial communities. By analyzing aggregation patterns of four prominent CF pathogens, Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Streptococcus sp., and Achromobacter xylosoxidans, we demonstrate a spectrum of aggregation states: from mostly single cells (A. xylosoxidans), to medium-sized clusters (S. aureus), to a mixture of single cells and large aggregates (P. aeruginosa and Streptococcus sp.). Furthermore, MiPACT-HCR revealed an intimate interaction between Streptococcus sp. and specific host cells. Lastly, by comparing standard rRNA fluorescence in situ hybridization signals to those from HCR, we found that different populations of S. aureus and A. xylosoxidans grow slowly overall yet exhibit growth rate heterogeneity over hundreds of microns. These results demonstrate the utility of MiPACT-HCR to directly capture the spatial organization and metabolic activity of bacteria in complex systems, such as human sputum. The advent of metagenomic and metatranscriptomic analyses has improved our understanding of microbial communities by empowering us to identify bacteria, calculate their abundance, and profile gene expression patterns in complex environments. We are still technologically limited, however, in regards to the many questions that bulk measurements cannot answer, specifically in assessing the spatial organization of microbe-microbe and microbe-host interactions. Here, we demonstrate the power of an enhanced optical clearing method, MiPACT, to survey important aspects of bacterial physiology (aggregation, host interactions, and growth rate), in situ, with preserved spatial information when coupled to rRNA detection by HCR. Our application of MiPACT-HCR to cystic fibrosis patient sputum revealed species-specific aggregation patterns, yet slow growth characterized the vast majority of bacterial cells regardless of their cell type. More broadly, MiPACT, coupled with fluorescent labeling, promises to advance the direct study of microbial communities in diverse environments, including microbial habitats within mammalian systems."	
29922270		Frontiers in microbiology	"{'i': ['Aspergillus fumigatus', 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa'], '#text': 'Inhibits  in Co-culture: Implications of a Mutually Antagonistic Relationship on Virulence and Inflammation in the CF Airway.'}"	"Many cystic fibrosis (CF) airway infections are considered to be polymicrobial and microbe-microbe interactions may play an important role in disease pathology.  and  are the most prevalent bacterial and fungal pathogens isolated from the CF airway, respectively. We have previously shown that patients co-colonized with these pathogens had comparable outcomes to those chronically colonized with . Our objective was to examine the interactions between  and , specifically the effects of co-colonization on biofilm formation, virulence and host pro-inflammatory responses. Our findings suggest that co-infections of  and  in the  acute infection model showed that pre-exposure of larvae to sub-lethal inocula of  increased the mortality caused by subsequent  infection. Co-infection of human bronchial epithelial cells (CFBE41o) with both pathogens did not enhance IL-6 and IL-8 production beyond the levels observed following single infections. In addition, both pathogens stimulated cytokine secretion via the same two mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) signaling pathways, ERK and p38. Mixed species biofilms showed overall reduced biofilm development with crystal violet staining. Quantification by species-specific qPCR revealed that both pathogens had mutually antagonistic effects on each other.  supernatants showed strong anti-Pseudomonal activity and gliotoxin was the main active agent. Gliotoxin resulted in varying levels of anti-biofilm activity toward other bacteria commonly found in the CF airways. Gliotoxin produced by  colonizing the CF airways may have a significant impact on the CF airway microbiome composition with potential clinical implications."	
37546931		bioRxiv : the preprint server for biology	Fecal Dysbiosis and Inflammation in Intestinal-Specific Cftr Knockout Mice on Regimens Preventing Intestinal Obstruction.	"Chronic intestinal inflammation is a poorly understood manifestation of Cystic Fibrosis (CF), which may be refractory to ion channel CFTR modulator therapy. People with CF exhibit intestinal dysbiosis which has potential for stimulating intestinal and systemic inflammation. CFTR is expressed in organ epithelia and in the leukocyte population. Here, we investigate the contribution of intestinal epithelial-specific loss of Cftr (iCftr KO) to dysbiosis and inflammation in mice treated with either of two anti-obstructive dietary regimens necessary to maintain CF mouse models (PEG laxative or a liquid diet, LiqD). Feces collected from iCftr KO mice and their wildtype (WT) sex-matched littermates were used to measure fecal calprotectin and to perform 16S rRNA sequencing to characterize the gut microbiome. Fecal calprotectin was elevated in iCftr KO relative to WT samples of mice consuming either PEG or LiqD. PEG iCftr KO mice did not show a change in α-diversity versus WT but demonstrated a significant difference in microbial composition (β-diversity) with increases in phylum  , family  , four genera of  including  , and mucolytic genus  . Fecal microbiome analysis of LiqD iCftr KO mice showed both decreased α-diversity and differences in microbial composition with increases in  family  ,  families  and  , and enrichment of  ,  ,  , mucolytic  , and reduction of  . It was concluded that epithelial-specific loss of Cftr is a major driver of CF intestinal dysbiosis and inflammation with significant similarities to previous studies of global Cftr KO mice. Chronic intestinal inflammation is a manifestation of cystic fibrosis (CF), a disease caused by loss of the anion channel CFTR that is expressed in many tissues. This study shows that intestinal epithelial cell-specific loss of CFTR (iCftr KO) in mice is sufficient to induce intestinal dysbiosis and inflammation. Studies were performed on mice consuming either dietary regimen (PEG laxative or liquid diet) routinely used to prevent obstruction in CF mice."	
36909663		Biofilm	Biomaterial therapeutic strategies for treatment of bacterial lung infections.	"Bacterial infections of the lung frequently occur as a secondary infection to many respiratory viral infections and conditions, including influenza, COVID-19, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and cystic fibrosis (CF). Currently, clinical standard treats bacterial infections of the lung with antibiotic drugs. However, the use of broad-spectrum antibiotics can disrupt host microbiomes, lead to patient discomfort, and current clinical settings face the constantly increasing threat of drug-resistant bacteria. Biofilms further obstruct effective treatment due to their protective matrix layer, which shields bacteria from both the host immune system and antimicrobial drugs and subsequently promotes drug resistance. Alternative antimicrobial agents, including bacteriophages and antimicrobial peptides, have been utilized to treat drug-resistant bacteria. However, these antimicrobial agents have significant limitations pertaining to their ability to arrive at infection sites without compromised function and ability to persist over an extended period to fully treat infections. Enhanced delivery strategies present great promise in addressing these issues by using micro/nanoparticle carriers that shield antimicrobial agents in transit and result in sustained release, enhancing subsequent therapeutic effect and can even be modulated to be multi-functional to further improve recovery following bacterial infection."	
29062489		NPJ biofilms and microbiomes	"{'i': ['Staphylococcus aureus', 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa'], '#text': 'interaction with  biofilm enhances tobramycin resistance.'}"	"Antimicrobial resistance is a significant threat to the treatment of infectious disease. Multiple mechanisms of resistance to different classes of antibiotics have been identified and well-studied. However, these mechanisms are studied with bacteria in isolation, whereas often, infections have a polymicrobial basis. Using a biofilm slide chamber model, we visualized the formation and development of clinical  biofilms in the presence of secreted  exoproducts, two bacteria that commonly co-infect pediatric patients with cystic fibrosis. We showed that, over time, certain isolates of  can form different biofilm architecture in the presence of  exoproducts. We further determined that this interaction was dependent on Psl produced by  and staphylococcal protein A from . Importantly, we identified a mechanism of antibiotic resistance to tobramycin that is dependent on the polymicrobial interactions between these two bacteria. This interaction occurred in isolates of  recovered from children with cystic fibrosis who failed to clear  following inhaled tobramycin treatment."	
28785939		Mycopathologia	Small Colony Variants of Pseudomonas aeruginosa Display Heterogeneity in Inhibiting Aspergillus fumigatus Biofilm.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Aspergillus fumigatus are major microbes in cystic fibrosis (CF). We reported non-mucoid P. aeruginosa isolates more inhibitory to A. fumigatus than mucoid ones. Another CF P. aeruginosa phenotype, small colony variants (SCVs), is an unknown factor in intermicrobial competition with A. fumigatus. Clinical SCV isolates and reference CF non-mucoid isolate (Pa10, producing normal-sized colonies) were compared. Live cells of P. aeruginosa or filtrates from P. aeruginosa planktonic or biofilm cultures were co-incubated with A. fumigatus growing under conditions allowing biofilm formation or with preformed biofilm. Metabolic activity of A. fumigatus biofilm was then measured. When necessary, assays were done after adjustment for growth differences by adding fresh medium to the planktonic culture filtrate. Pyoverdine determinations were performed spectrophotometrically on the planktonic culture filtrates. In all experimental conditions (live cells and planktonic or biofilm culture filtrates of P. aeruginosa versus A. fumigatus biofilm formation or preformed biofilm), three SCV isolates were less inhibitory than Pa10, two equal or more inhibitory. Adjusting planktonic culture filtrates for growth differences showed SCV inhibition differences variably related to growth or deficient inhibitor production. Studies suggested the principal P. aeruginosa inhibitor to be pyoverdine. SCV isolates appear heterogeneous in their capacity to inhibit A. fumigatus biofilm. SCV isolates can be important in the CF microbiome, because they are capable of intermicrobial inhibition."	
28383665		Genome biology and evolution	A Pan-Genomic Approach to Understand the Basis of Host Adaptation in Achromobacter.	"Over the past decade, there has been a rising interest in Achromobacter sp., an emerging opportunistic pathogen responsible for nosocomial and cystic fibrosis lung infections. Species of this genus are ubiquitous in the environment, can outcompete resident microbiota, and are resistant to commonly used disinfectants as well as antibiotics. Nevertheless, the Achromobacter genus suffers from difficulties in diagnosis, unresolved taxonomy and limited understanding of how it adapts to the cystic fibrosis lung, not to mention other host environments. The goals of this first genus-wide comparative genomics study were to clarify the taxonomy of this genus and identify genomic features associated with pathogenicity and host adaptation. This was done with a widely applicable approach based on pan-genome analysis. First, using all publicly available genomes, a combination of phylogenetic analysis based on 1,780 conserved genes with average nucleotide identity and accessory genome composition allowed the identification of a largely clinical lineage composed of Achromobacter xylosoxidans, Achromobacter insuavis, Achromobacter dolens, and Achromobacter ruhlandii. Within this lineage, we identified 35 positively selected genes involved in metabolism, regulation and efflux-mediated antibiotic resistance. Second, resistome analysis showed that this clinical lineage carried additional antibiotic resistance genes compared with other isolates. Finally, we identified putative mobile elements that contribute 53% of the genus's resistome and support horizontal gene transfer between Achromobacter and other ecologically similar genera. This study provides strong phylogenetic and pan-genomic bases to motivate further research on Achromobacter, and contributes to the understanding of opportunistic pathogen evolution."	
26549988		"Journal of inflammation (London, England)"	CFTR Knockdown induces proinflammatory changes in intestinal epithelial cells.	"Hyperinflammation is a hallmark feature of cystic fibrosis (CF) airways. However, inflammation has also been documented systemically and, more recently, in extrapulmonary CF-affected tissues such as the pancreas and intestine. The pathogenesis of CF-related inflammation and more specifically the role of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) in that respect are not entirely understood. We have tested the hypothesis that genetic depletion of CFTR will affect the inflammatory status of human intestinal epithelial cell lines. CFTR expression was genetically depleted from Caco-2/15 and HT-29 cells using short hairpin RNA interference (shRNAi). Inflammatory conditions were induced by the addition of human recombinant tumor necrosis factor (TNF) or Interleukin-1β (IL-1β) for various periods of time. Gene expression, mRNA stability and secreted levels of interleukin (IL)-6, -8 and 10 were assessed. Analysis of pro- and anti-inflammatory signaling pathways including mitogen-activated protein kinases (p38, ERK 1/2 and JNK), nuclear factor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B-cells inhibitor alpha (IκBα), and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) was also performed. Eosinophils were counted in the jejunal mucosa of Cftr-/- and Cftr+/+ mice. CFTR gene and protein knockdown caused a significant increase in basal secretion of IL-8 as well as in IL-1β-induced secretion of IL-6 and -8. Release of the anti-inflammatory cytokine, IL-10, remained unaffected by CFTR depletion. The enhanced secretion of IL-8 stems in part from increased IL8 mRNA levels and greater activation of ERK1/2 MAPK, IκBα and NF-κB in the CFTR knockdown cells. By contrast, phosphorylation levels of p38 and JNK MAPK did not differ between control and knockdown cells. We also found a higher number of infiltrating eosinophils in the jejunal mucosa of Cftr -/- females, but not males, compared to Cftr +/+ mice, thus providing in vivo support to our in vitro findings. Collectively, these data underscore the role played by CFTR in regulating the intestinal inflammatory responses. Such findings lend support to the theory that CFTR exerts functions that may go beyond its role as a chloride channel whereby its disruption may prevent cells to optimally respond to exogenous or endogenous challenges. These observations are of particular interest to CF patients who were found to display alterations in their intestinal microbiota, thus predisposing them to pathogens that may elicit exaggerated inflammatory responses."	
33917155		Nutrients	Probiotics Supplements Reduce ER Stress and Gut Inflammation Associated with Gliadin Intake in a Mouse Model of Gluten Sensitivity.	"Exposure to gluten, a protein present in wheat rye and barley, is the major inducer for human Celiac Disease (CD), a chronic autoimmune enteropathy. CD occurs in about 1% worldwide population, in genetically predisposed individuals bearing human leukocyte antigen (HLA) DQ2/DQ8. Gut epithelial cell stress and the innate immune activation are responsible for the breaking oral tolerance to gliadin, a gluten component. To date, the only treatment available for CD is a long-term gluten-free diet. Several studies have shown that an altered composition of the intestinal microbiota (dysbiosis) could play a key role in the pathogenesis of CD through the modulation of intestinal permeability and the regulation of the immune system. Here, we show that gliadin induces a chronic endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress condition in the small intestine of a gluten-sensitive mouse model and that the coadministration of probiotics efficiently attenuates both the unfolded protein response (UPR) and gut inflammation. Moreover, the composition of probiotics formulations might differ in their activity at molecular level, especially toward the three axes of the UPR. Therefore, probiotics administration might potentially represent a new valuable strategy to treat gluten-sensitive patients, such as those affected by CD."	
29789277		JMIR research protocols	"Applicability of a Web-Based, Individualized Exercise Intervention in Patients With Liver Disease, Cystic Fibrosis, Esophageal Cancer, and Psychiatric Disorders: Process Evaluation of 4 Ongoing Clinical Trials."	"In the primary and secondary prevention of civilization diseases, regular physical activity is recommended in international guidelines to improve disease-related symptoms, delay the progression of the disease, or to enhance postoperative outcomes. In the preoperative context, there has been a paradigm shift in favor of using preconditioning concepts before surgery. Web-based interventions seem an innovative and effective tool for delivering general information, individualized exercise recommendations, and peer support. Our first objective was to assess feasibility of our Web-based interventional concept and analyze similarities and differences in a sustained exercise implementation in different diseases. The second objective was to investigate the overall participants' satisfaction with our Web-based concept. A total of 4 clinical trials are still being carried out, including patients with esophageal carcinoma scheduled for oncologic esophagectomy (internet-based perioperative exercise program, iPEP, study), nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (hepatic inflammation and physical performance in patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, HELP, study), depression (exercise for depression, EXDEP, study), and cystic fibrosis (cystic fibrosis online mentoring for microbiome, exercise, and diet, COMMED, study). During the intervention period, the study population had access to the website with disease-specific content and a disease-specific discussion forum. All participants received weekly, individual tailored exercise recommendations from the sports therapist. The main outcome was the using behavior, which was obtained by investigating the log-in rate and duration. A total of 20 participants (5 from each trial) were analyzed. During the intervention period, a regular contact and a consequent implementation of exercise prescription were easily achieved in all substudies. Across the 4 substudies, there was a significant decrease in log-in rates (P<.001) and log-in durations (P<.001) over time. A detailed view of the different studies shows a significant decrease in log-in rates and log-in durations in the HELP study (P=.004; P=.002) and iPEP study (P=.02; P=.001), whereas the EXDEP study (P=.58; P=.38) and COMMED study (P=.87; P=.56) showed no significant change over the 8-week intervention period. There was no significant change in physical activity within all studies (P=.31). Only in the HELP study, the physical activity level increased steadily over the period analyzed (P=.045). Overall, 17 participants (85%, 17/20) felt secure and were not scared of injury, with no major differences in the subtrials. The universal use of the Web-based intervention appears to be applicable across the heterogonous collectives of our study patients with regard to age and disease. Although the development of physical activity shows only moderate improvements, flexible communication and tailored support could be easily integrated into patients' daily routine. iPEP study: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02478996; https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02478996 (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6zL1UmHaW); HELP study: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02526732; http://www.webcitation.org/6zJjX7d6K (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6Nch4ldcL); EXDEP study: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02874833; https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02874833 (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6zJjj7FuA)."	
34839223		Cell calcium	The bitter end: T2R bitter receptor agonists elevate nuclear calcium and induce apoptosis in non-ciliated airway epithelial cells.	"Bitter taste receptors (T2Rs) localize to airway motile cilia and initiate innate immune responses in retaliation to bacterial quorum sensing molecules. Activation of cilia T2Rs leads to calcium-driven NO production that increases cilia beating and directly kills bacteria. Several diseases, including chronic rhinosinusitis, COPD, and cystic fibrosis, are characterized by loss of motile cilia and/or squamous metaplasia. To understand T2R function within the altered landscape of airway disease, we studied T2Rs in non-ciliated airway cell lines and primary cells. Several T2Rs localize to the nucleus in de-differentiated cells that typically localize to cilia in differentiated cells. As cilia and nuclear import utilize shared proteins, some T2Rs may target to the nucleus in the absence of motile cilia. T2R agonists selectively elevated nuclear and mitochondrial calcium through a G-protein-coupled receptor phospholipase C mechanism. Additionally, T2R agonists decreased nuclear cAMP, increased nitric oxide, and increased cGMP, consistent with T2R signaling. Furthermore, exposure to T2R agonists led to nuclear calcium-induced mitochondrial depolarization and caspase activation. T2R agonists induced apoptosis in primary bronchial and nasal cells differentiated at air-liquid interface but then induced to a squamous phenotype by apical submersion. Air-exposed well-differentiated cells did not die. This may be a last-resort defense against bacterial infection. However, it may also increase susceptibility of de-differentiated or remodeled epithelia to damage by bacterial metabolites. Moreover, the T2R-activated apoptosis pathway occurs in airway cancer cells. T2Rs may thus contribute to microbiome-tumor cell crosstalk in airway cancers. Targeting T2Rs may be useful for activating cancer cell apoptosis while sparing surrounding tissue."	
33762359		BMJ open respiratory research	"{'i': 'Pneumocystis', '#text': 'Relationship of  antibody responses to paediatric asthma severity.'}"	"Although asthma is the most commonly diagnosed respiratory disease, its pathogenesis is complex, involving both genetic and environmental factors. A role for the respiratory microbiome in modifying asthma severity has been recently recognised. Airway colonisation by  has previously been associated with multiple chronic lung diseases, including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and severe asthma (SA). Decreased incidence of  pneumonia in HIV-infected individuals and reduced severity of COPD is associated with naturally occurring antibody responses to the  antigen, Kexin (KEX1). 104 paediatric patients were screened for KEX1 IgG reciprocal end point titre (RET), including 51 with SA, 20 with mild/moderate asthma, 20 non-asthma and 13 with cystic fibrosis (CF) in a cross-sectional study. Patients with SA had significantly reduced  KEX1 titres compared with patients with mild/moderate asthma (p=0.018) and CF (p=0.003). A binary KEX1 RET indicator was determined at a threshold of KEX1 RET=1000. Patients with SA had 4.40 (95% CI 1.28 to 13.25, p=0.014) and 17.92 (95% CI 4.15 to 66.62, p<0.001) times the odds of falling below that threshold compared with mild/moderate asthma and patients with CF, respectively. Moreover, KEX1 IgG RET did not correlate with tetanus toxoid IgG (r=0.21, p=0.82) or total IgE (r=0.03, p=0.76), indicating findings are specific to antibody responses to KEX1. Paediatric patients with SA may be at higher risk for chronic  infections and asthma symptom exacerbation due to reduced levels of protective antibodies. Plasma KEX1 IgG titre may be a useful parameter in determining the clinical course of treatment for paediatric patients with asthma."	
37479064		European journal of pharmaceutics and biopharmaceutics : official journal of Arbeitsgemeinschaft fur Pharmazeutische Verfahrenstechnik e.V	Development of a time-dependent oral colon delivery system of anaerobic Odoribacter splanchnicus for bacteriotherapy.	"Odoribacter (O.) splanchnicus is an anaerobic member of the human intestinal microbiota. Its decrease in abundance has been associated with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), non-alcoholic fatty liver, and cystic fibrosis. Considering the anti-inflammatory properties of O. splanchnicus and its possible use for IBD, intestinal isolate O. splanchnicus 57 was here formulated for oral colonic release based on a time-dependent strategy. Freeze-drying protocol was determined to ensure O. splanchnicus 57 viability during the process. Disintegrating tablets, containing the freeze-dried O. splanchnicus 57, were manufactured by direct compression and coated by powder-layering technique with hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (Methocel™ E50) in a tangential-spray fluid bed. Eudragit® L was then applied by spray-coating in a top-spray fluid bed. Double-coated tablets were tested for release, showing gastric resistance properties and, as desired, lag phases of reproducible duration prior to release in phosphate buffer pH 6.8. The cell viability and anti-inflammatory activity of the strain were assessed after the main manufacturing steps. While freeze-drying did not affect bacterial viability, the tableting and coating processes were more stressful. Nonetheless, O. splanchnicus 57 cells survived manufacturing and the final formulations had 10-10 CFU/g of viable cells. The strain kept its anti-inflammatory properties after tableting and coating, reducing Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide-induced interleukin-8 cytokine release from HT-29 cells. Overall, O. splanchnicus 57 strain was formulated successfully for oral colon delivery, opening new ways to formulate pure cultures of single anaerobic strains or mixtures for oral delivery."	
38075871		Frontiers in microbiology	"{'i': ['Burkholderia', 'B. anthina'], '#text': 'Genomic analyses of  respiratory isolates indicates two evolutionarily distinct  clades.'}"	"The  complex (BCC) encompasses a group of at least 22 genetically distinct gram-negatives bacterial species ubiquitous in nature. Recognised as a group of genetically and phenotypically flexible species, the BCC inhabits diverse ecological niches causing both plant and human diseases. Comparative genomic analysis provides an in depth understanding into the population biology, phylogenetic relationship, and genomic architecture of species. Here, we genomically characterise  isolated from patients with chronic lung infections, an understudied pathogen within the  complex. We demonstrate that  is polyphyletic and constitutes two distinct evolutionary lineages. Core- and pan-genome analyses demonstrated substantial metabolic diversity, with  Clade I enriched in genes associated with microbial metabolism in diverse environments, including degradation of aromatic compounds and metabolism of xenobiotics, while  Clade II demonstrated an enhanced capability for siderophore biosynthesis. Based on our phylogenetic and comparative genomic analyses, we suggest stratifying  to recognise a distinct species harbouring increased potential for iron metabolism via siderophore synthesis, for which we propose the name  (sp. nov.)."	
26701274		Journal of oral microbiology	Salivary mucins in host defense and disease prevention.	"Mucus forms a protective coating on wet epithelial surfaces throughout the body that houses the microbiota and plays a key role in host defense. Mucins, the primary structural components of mucus that creates its viscoelastic properties, are critical components of the gel layer that protect against invading pathogens. Altered mucin production has been implicated in diseases such as ulcerative colitis, asthma, and cystic fibrosis, which highlights the importance of mucins in maintaining homeostasis. Different types of mucins exist throughout the body in various locations such as the gastrointestinal tract, lungs, and female genital tract, but this review will focus on mucins in the oral cavity. Salivary mucin structure, localization within the oral cavity, and defense mechanisms will be discussed. These concepts will then be applied to present what is known about the protective function of mucins in oral diseases such as HIV/AIDS, oral candidiasis, and dental caries."	
22238446		Journal of clinical microbiology	"A simple, semiselective medium for anaerobic isolation of anginosus group streptococci from patients with chronic lung disease."	"The anaerobic isolation of anginosus group streptococci (AGS) from respiratory specimens containing diverse microbiota using a semiselective blood agar medium incorporating nalidixic acid and sulfamethazine (NAS) is described. AGS were detected in 60% of tested sputa from patients with cystic fibrosis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and bronchiectasis. This demonstrates NAS to be a diagnostic tool for detecting AGS within the complex microbial communities associated with chronic lung disorders."	
38171775		Biological & pharmaceutical bulletin	Regulation of Chloride Channels by Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor-Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor-Induced α-Defensin 5.	"Epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) are used to treat non-small cell lung cancer with EGFR mutations. However, first-generation erlotinib and second-generation afatinib often cause diarrhea, which may develop because of the association between EGFR-TKIs and the chloride channel or abnormalities in the intestinal microbiota due to disruption of the intestinal immune system. As reports on the effects of EGFR-TKIs on intestinal immunity are lacking, we aimed to determine whether the intestinal immune system is involved in the molecular effects of EGFR-TKIs on chloride channels using Caco-2 cells. Initially, we evaluated the association of chloride channels with α-defensin 5 (DEFA5), a marker of intestinal immunity. Erlotinib and afatinib significantly increased the extracellularly secreted DEFA5 level and autophagy-related 16-like 1 and X-box binding protein 1 transcript levels, indicative of enhanced granule exocytosis. Conversely, intracellular DEFA5 and Toll-like receptor 4 protein expression and tumor necrosis factor-α transcript levels decreased significantly, suggesting that Toll-like receptor 4 suppression repressed DEFA5 production. Furthermore, among the chloride channels, DEFA5 was found to significantly increase the transcript levels of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulators. These results indicate that DEFA5 plays a significant role in the mechanism of chloride channel-mediated diarrhea induced by EGFR-TKIs. Therefore, we successfully elucidated the potential host action of DEFA5 in cancer therapy for the first time."	
37577118		Open forum infectious diseases	Delayed and Attenuated Antibody Responses to Coronavirus Disease 2019 Vaccination With Poor Cross-Variant Neutralization in Solid-Organ Transplant Recipients-A Prospective Longitudinal Study.	"Therapeutically immunosuppressed transplant recipients exhibit attenuated responses to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) vaccines. To elucidate the kinetics and variant cross-protection of vaccine-induced antibodies in this population, we conducted a prospective longitudinal study in heart and lung transplant recipients receiving the SARS-CoV-2 messenger RNA (mRNA) 3-dose vaccination series. We measured longitudinal serum antibody and neutralization responses against the ancestral and major variants of SARS-CoV-2 in SARS-CoV-2-uninfected lung (n = 18) and heart (n = 17) transplant recipients, non-lung-transplanted patients with cystic fibrosis (n = 7), and healthy controls (n = 12) before, during, and after the primary mRNA vaccination series. Among healthy controls, strong anti-spike responses arose immediately following vaccination and displayed cross-neutralization against all variants. In contrast, among transplant recipients, after the first 2 vaccine doses, increases in antibody concentrations occurred gradually, and cross-neutralization was completely absent against the Omicron B.1.1.529 variant. However, most (73%) of the transplant recipients had a significant response to the third vaccine dose, reaching levels comparable to those of healthy controls, with improved but attenuated neutralization of immune evasive variants, particularly Beta, Gamma, and Omicron. Responses in non-lung-transplanted patients with cystic fibrosis paralleled those in healthy controls. In this prospective, longitudinal analysis of variant-specific antibody responses, lung and heart transplant recipients display delayed and defective responses to the first 2 SARS-CoV-2 vaccine doses but significantly augmented responses to a third dose. Gaps in antibody-mediated immunity among transplant recipients are compounded by decreased neutralization against Omicron variants, leaving many patients with substantially weakened immunity against currently circulating variants."	
29202048		mSystems	Making It Last: Storage Time and Temperature Have Differential Impacts on Metabolite Profiles of Airway Samples from Cystic Fibrosis Patients.	"Metabolites of human or microbial origin have the potential to be important biomarkers of the disease state in cystic fibrosis (CF). Clinical sample collection and storage conditions may impact metabolite abundances with clinical relevance. We measured the change in metabolite composition based on untargeted gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) when CF sputum samples were stored at 4°C, -20°C, or -80°C with one or two freeze-thaw cycles. Daily measurements were taken for 1 week and then weekly for 4 weeks (4°C) and 8 weeks (-20°C). The metabolites in samples stored at -20°C maintained abundances similar to those found at-80°C over the course of 8 weeks (average change in Bray-Curtis distance, 0.06 ± 0.04) and were also stable after one or two freeze-thaw cycles. However, the metabolite profiles of samples stored at 4°C shifted after 1 day and continued to change over the course of 4 weeks (average change in Bray-Curtis distance, 0.31 ± 0.12). The abundances of several amino acids and other metabolites increased with time of storage at 4°C but remained constant at -20°C. Storage temperature was a significant factor driving the metabolite composition (permutational multivariate analysis of variance:  = 0.32 to 0.49,  < 0.001). CF sputum samples stored at -20°C at the time of sampling maintain a relatively stable untargeted GC-MS profile. Samples should be frozen on the day of collection, as more than 1 day at 4°C impacts the global composition of the metabolites in the sample.  Metabolomics has great potential for uncovering biomarkers of the disease state in CF and many other contexts. However, sample storage timing and temperature may alter the abundance of clinically relevant metabolites. To assess whether existing samples are stable and to direct future study design, we conducted untargeted GC-MS metabolomic analysis of CF sputum samples after one or two freeze-thaw cycles and storage at 4°C and -20°C for 4 to 8 weeks. Overall, storage at -20°C and freeze-thaw cycles had little impact on metabolite profiles; however, storage at 4°C shifted metabolite abundances significantly. GC-MS profiling will aid in our understanding of the CF lung, but care should be taken in studies using sputum samples to ensure that samples are properly stored."	
25844058		International journal of mass spectrometry	Mass spectral similarity for untargeted metabolomics data analysis of complex mixtures.	"While in nucleotide sequencing, the analysis of DNA from complex mixtures of organisms is common, this is not yet true for mass spectrometric data analysis of complex mixtures. The comparative analyses of mass spectrometry data of microbial communities at the molecular level is difficult to perform, especially in the context of a host. The challenge does not lie in generating the mass spectrometry data, rather much of the difficulty falls in the realm of how to derive relevant information from this data. The informatics based techniques to visualize and organize datasets are well established for metagenome sequencing; however, due to the scarcity of informatics strategies in mass spectrometry, it is currently difficult to cross correlate two very different mass spectrometry data sets from microbial communities and their hosts. We highlight that molecular networking can be used as an organizational tool of tandem mass spectrometry data, automated database search for rapid identification of metabolites, and as a workflow to manage and compare mass spectrometry data from complex mixtures of organisms. To demonstrate this platform, we show data analysis from hard corals and a human lung associated with cystic fibrosis."	
36258075		Advances in experimental medicine and biology	Pseudomonas aeruginosa Antivirulence Strategies: Targeting the Type III Secretion System.	"The Pseudomonas aeruginosa type III secretion system (T3SS) is a complex molecular machine that delivers toxic proteins from the bacterial cytoplasm directly into host cells. This apparatus spans the inner and outer membrane and employs a needle-like structure that penetrates through the eucaryotic cell membrane into the host cell cytosol. The expression of the P. aeruginosa T3SS is highly regulated by environmental signals including low calcium and host cell contact. P. aeruginosa strains with mutations in T3SS genes are less pathogenic, suggesting that the T3SS is a virulence mechanism. Given that P. aeruginosa is naturally antibiotic resistant and multidrug resistant isolates are rapidly emerging, new antibiotics to target P. aeruginosa are needed. Furthermore, even if new antibiotics were to be developed, the timeline between when an antibiotic is released and resistance development is relatively short. Therefore, the concept of targeting virulence factors has garnered attention. So-called ""antivirulence"" approaches do not kill the microbe but instead focus on rendering it harmless and therefore unable to cause damage. Since these therapies target a particular system or pathway, the normal microbiome is unlikely to be affected and there is less concern about the spread to other microbes. Finally, and most importantly, since any antivirulence drug does not kill the microbe, there should be less selective pressure to develop resistance to these inhibitors. The P. aeruginosa T3SS has been well studied due to its importance for pathogenesis in numerous human and animal infections. Thus, many P. aeruginosa T3SS inhibitors have been described as potential antivirulence therapeutics, some of which have progressed to clinical trials."	
35050830		American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine	Characterization of Eosinophilic Bronchiectasis: A European Multicohort Study.	"Bronchiectasis is classically considered a neutrophilic disorder, but eosinophilic subtypes have recently been described.  To use multiple datasets available through the European Multicentre Bronchiectasis Audit and Research Collaboration to characterize eosinophilic bronchiectasis as a clinical entity focusing on the impact of eosinophils on bronchiectasis exacerbations.  Patients were included from five countries to examine the relationships between blood eosinophil counts and clinical phenotypes after excluding coexisting asthma. 16S rRNA sequencing was used to examine relationships between eosinophil counts and the sputum microbiome. A  analysis of the PROMIS (Inhaled Promixin in the Treatment of Non-Cystic Fibrosis Bronchiectasis) phase 2 trial was used to examine the impact of blood eosinophil counts on exacerbations in patients with  infection.  A relationship between sputum and blood eosinophil counts was demonstrated in two cohorts. In analysis of 1,007 patients from five countries, 22.6% of patients had blood eosinophil counts of ⩾300 cells/μl. Counts of <100 cells/μl were associated with higher bronchiectasis severity and increased mortality. There was no clear relationship with exacerbations. Blood eosinophil counts of ⩾300 cells/μl were associated with both - and -dominated microbiome profiles. To investigate the relationship of eosinophil counts with exacerbations after controlling for the confounding effects of infection, 144 patients were studied in a clinical trial after treatment with antipseudomonal antibiotics. Compared with patients with blood eosinophil counts of <100 cells/μl (reference), elevated eosinophil counts of 100-299 cells/μl (hazard ratio, 2.38; 95% confidence interval, 1.33-4.25;  = 0.003) and ⩾300 cells/μl (hazard ratio, 3.99; 95% confidence interval, 2.20-7.85;  < 0.0001) were associated with shorter time to exacerbation.  Eosinophilic bronchiectasis affects approximately 20% of patients. After accounting for infection status, raised blood eosinophil counts are associated with shortened time to exacerbation."	
35507311		FP essentials	Gastrointestinal Conditions: Malabsorption Syndromes.	"Malabsorption syndromes are a heterogenous group of conditions that can cause distressing gastrointestinal symptoms. Celiac disease is most common and is triggered by exposure to gluten. Tissue transglutaminase immunoglobulin A is the diagnostic test of choice; management is gluten avoidance. Lactose intolerance is caused by absence or declining levels of the enzyme lactase. Diagnosis typically is clinical, but breath tests can be helpful if diagnosis is uncertain. Management is lactose avoidance. Bile acid malabsorption results in unabsorbed bile acids in the colon, leading to diarrhea. The 75selenium homotaurocholic acid test is most accurate but is not widely available. Therefore, a trial of bile acid sequestrants (typically cholestyramine) is a reasonable alternative when the diagnosis is suspected. Exocrine pancreatic insufficiency is caused by decreased production of pancreatic enzymes, typically occurring in patients with preexisting pancreatic damage from alcohol, surgery, radiation, diabetes, or cystic fibrosis. Diagnosis involves fecal fat or fecal elastase-1 tests. Management is pancreatic enzyme replacement. Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth is caused by pathologic overgrowth of the small bowel microbiome. Diagnosis is by jejunal biopsy or, more commonly, breath tests. Antibiotics (typically rifaximin) are the initial management. Other options include dietary changes, probiotics, and prokinetic drugs."	
37483468		Statistica Sinica	Globally Adaptive Longitudinal Quantile Regression with High Dimensional Compositional Covariates.	"In this work, we propose a longitudinal quantile regression framework that enables a robust characterization of heterogeneous covariate-response associations in the presence of high-dimensional compositional covariates and repeated measurements of both response and covariates. We develop a globally adaptive penalization procedure, which can consistently identify covariate sparsity patterns across a continuum set of quantile levels. The proposed estimation procedure properly aggregates longitudinal observations over time, and ensures the satisfaction of the sum-zero coefficient constraint that is needed for proper interpretation of the effects of compositional covariates. We establish the oracle rate of uniform convergence and weak convergence of the resulting estimators, and further justify the proposed uniform selector of the tuning parameter in terms of achieving global model selection consistency. We derive an efficient algorithm by incorporating existing R packages to facilitate stable and fast computation. Our extensive simulation studies confirm the theoretical findings. We apply the proposed method to a longitudinal study of cystic fibrosis children where the association between gut microbiome and other diet-related biomarkers is of interest."	
32722412		"Journal of fungi (Basel, Switzerland)"	"{'i': ['Aspergillus', 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa'], '#text': 'Is Inhibited by  Volatiles.'}"	"(Pa) and  (Af) compete with each other for nutrients and survival in natural environments, and have been extensively studied because of their intermicrobial interactions in the human microbiome. These are the principal microbes infecting immunocompromised patients and persons with cystic fibrosis, particularly the airways. These intermicrobial studies have largely been conducted in liquid medium or on agar, and thus focus on soluble or diffusible microbial products. Several key inhibitory molecules were defined in such studies. in the present report, we examine several methodologies which can be conveniently used to study the interaction of microbial volatiles, including capture methods and kinetics. Pa volatiles inhibit Af, and the inhibitory mechanism appears to be the incorporation of the inhibitory molecules into the substrate nourishing the Af, rather than directly onto Af structures. We define by mass spectroscopy some specific volatile Pa products that can inhibit Af. Some of these molecules are selected for interest by the study of gene deletion mutants, producing a few Pa strains that were impaired in inhibition. We presumed the volatiles of these latter strains could be excluded from the search for inhibitors. the Pa inhibition of Af via a gaseous phase could be critical components in their competition, particularly in airways, where more direct contact may not be extensive."	
33188867		The Journal of hospital infection	"Effectiveness of a plasma treatment device on microbial air quality in a hospital ward, monitored by culture."	"This study analysed the effectiveness of plasma treatment on airborne bacteria and surface counts during a 14-day intervention within a four-bedded bay in an adult respiratory ward at Cork University Hospital, Ireland. One-hundred-litre air samples were collected twice daily every weekday for 4 weeks, with settle plates and surface swabs. The plasma treatment did not have an effect on airborne bacteria and fungi that was detectable by culture. However, the possibility that culture-based sampling may be insufficiently sensitive to detect an effect, or that the duration of the study was insufficient for plasma treatment to affect a complex environment, cannot be excluded."	
38849863		Genome medicine	Keeping up with the pathogens: improved antimicrobial resistance detection and prediction from Pseudomonas aeruginosa genomes.	"Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is an intensifying threat that requires urgent mitigation to avoid a post-antibiotic era. Pseudomonas aeruginosa represents one of the greatest AMR concerns due to increasing multi- and pan-drug resistance rates. Shotgun sequencing is gaining traction for in silico AMR profiling due to its unambiguity and transferability; however, accurate and comprehensive AMR prediction from P. aeruginosa genomes remains an unsolved problem. We first curated the most comprehensive database yet of known P. aeruginosa AMR variants. Next, we performed comparative genomics and microbial genome-wide association study analysis across a Global isolate Dataset (n = 1877) with paired antimicrobial phenotype and genomic data to identify novel AMR variants. Finally, the performance of our P. aeruginosa AMR database, implemented in our AMR detection and prediction tool, ARDaP, was compared with three previously published in silico AMR gene detection or phenotype prediction tools-abritAMR, AMRFinderPlus, ResFinder-across both the Global Dataset and an analysis-naïve Validation Dataset (n = 102). Our AMR database comprises 3639 mobile AMR genes and 728 chromosomal variants, including 75 previously unreported chromosomal AMR variants, 10 variants associated with unusual antimicrobial susceptibility, and 281 chromosomal variants that we show are unlikely to confer AMR. Our pipeline achieved a genotype-phenotype balanced accuracy (bACC) of 85% and 81% across 10 clinically relevant antibiotics when tested against the Global and Validation Datasets, respectively, vs. just 56% and 54% with abritAMR, 58% and 54% with AMRFinderPlus, and 60% and 53% with ResFinder. ARDaP's superior performance was predominantly due to the inclusion of chromosomal AMR variants, which are generally not identified with most AMR identification tools. Our ARDaP software and associated AMR variant database provides an accurate tool for predicting AMR phenotypes in P. aeruginosa, far surpassing the performance of current tools. Implementation of ARDaP for routine AMR prediction from P. aeruginosa genomes and metagenomes will improve AMR identification, addressing a critical facet in combatting this treatment-refractory pathogen. However, knowledge gaps remain in our understanding of the P. aeruginosa resistome, particularly the basis of colistin AMR."	
33313307		ERJ open research	"{'sup': 'TM', '#text': 'An innovative phase II trial to establish proof of efficacy and optimal dose of a new inhaled epithelial sodium channel inhibitor BI 1265162 in adults and adolescents with cystic fibrosis: BALANCE-CF 1.'}"	"Inhibition of the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) represents an important, mutation-agnostic therapeutic approach to restore airway surface liquid in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). A phase II trial of the ENaC inhibitor BI 1265162, inhaled  the Respimat® Soft Mist™ inhaler, in patients aged ≥12 years with CF is being conducted to assess the efficacy and safety of BI 1265162, on top of standard CF treatment (www.clinicaltrials.gov identifier NCT04059094). BALANCE-CF™ 1 is a multinational, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, dose-ranging trial consisting of 2 weeks' screening, 4 weeks' randomised treatment and 1 week follow-up. 98 patients, including ≥21 adolescents, will be randomised. First, 28 patients will be allocated to the highest dose of BI 1265162 (200 µg twice daily) or placebo in a 1:1 ratio. The remaining 70 patients will be allocated to one of five treatment arms (200 µg, 100 µg, 50 µg, 20 µg or placebo twice daily), with a final distribution ratio of 2:1:1:1:2. Recruitment and randomisation will begin with adult patients. An independent data monitoring committee will review safety data to advise on inclusion of adolescents and study continuation. A futility analysis will be conducted after 28 patients to prevent exposure of further patients in case of insufficient evidence of clinical efficacy. The design ensures that potential for effect is assessed ahead of wider enrolment, allowing investigation of a dose-response effect with minimal patient numbers. The results will increase understanding of efficacy, safety and optimal dosing of the inhaled ENaC inhibitor BI 1265162 in adults and adolescents with CF."	
34836612		Advances in microbial physiology	The Pseudomonas aeruginosa whole genome sequence: A 20th anniversary celebration.	"Toward the end of August 2000, the 6.3 Mbp whole genome sequence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain PAO1 was published. With 5570 open reading frames (ORFs), PAO1 had the largest microbial genome sequenced up to that point in time-including a large proportion of metabolic, transport and antimicrobial resistance genes supporting its ability to colonize diverse environments. A remarkable 9% of its ORFs were predicted to encode proteins with regulatory functions, providing new insight into bacterial network complexity as a function of network size. In this celebratory article, we fast forward 20 years, and examine how access to this resource has transformed our understanding of P. aeruginosa. What follows is more than a simple review or commentary; we have specifically asked some of the leaders in the field to provide personal reflections on how the PAO1 genome sequence, along with the Pseudomonas Community Annotation Project (PseudoCAP) and Pseudomonas Genome Database (pseudomonas.com), have contributed to the many exciting discoveries in this field. In addition to bringing us all up to date with the latest developments, we also ask our contributors to speculate on how the next 20 years of Pseudomonas research might pan out."	
27495169		BMC genomics	Functional characterization of the Mycobacterium abscessus genome coupled with condition specific transcriptomics reveals conserved molecular strategies for host adaptation and persistence.	"Mycobacterium abscessus subsp. abscessus (MAB) is a highly drug resistant mycobacterium and the most common respiratory pathogen among the rapidly growing non-tuberculous mycobacteria. MAB is also one of the most deadly of the emerging cystic fibrosis (CF) pathogens requiring prolonged treatment with multiple antibiotics. In addition to its ""mycobacterial"" virulence genes, the genome of MAB harbours a large accessory genome, presumably acquired via lateral gene transfer including homologs shared with the CF pathogens Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Burkholderia cepacia. While multiple genome sequences are available there is little functional genomics data available for this important pathogen. We report here the first multi-omics approach to characterize the primary transcriptome, coding potential and potential regulatory regions of the MAB genome utilizing differential RNA sequencing (dRNA-seq), RNA-seq, Ribosome profiling and LC-MS proteomics. In addition we attempt to address the genomes contribution to the molecular systems that underlie MAB's adaptation and persistence in the human host through an examination of MABs transcriptional response to a number of clinically relevant conditions. These include hypoxia, exposure to sub-inhibitory concentrations of antibiotics and growth in an artificial sputum designed to mimic the conditions within the cystic fibrosis lung. Our integrated map provides the first comprehensive view of the primary transcriptome of MAB and evidence for the translation of over one hundred new short open reading frames (sORFs). Our map will act as a resource for ongoing functional genomics characterization of MAB and our transcriptome data from clinically relevant stresses informs our understanding of MAB's adaptation to life in the CF lung. MAB's adaptation to growth in artificial CF sputum highlights shared metabolic strategies with other CF pathogens including P. aeruginosa and mirrors the transcriptional responses that lead to persistence in mycobacteria. These strategies include an increased reliance on amino acid metabolism, and fatty acid catabolism and highlights the relevance of the glyoxylate shunt to growth in the CF lung. Our data suggests that, similar to what is seen in chronically persisting P. aeruginosa, progression towards a biofilm mode of growth would play a more prominent role in a longer-term MAB infection. Finally, MAB's transcriptional response to antibiotics highlights the role of antibiotic modifications enzymes, active transport and the evolutionarily conserved WhiB7 driven antibiotic resistance regulon."	
26980832		mBio	Volatile Compounds Emitted by Pseudomonas aeruginosa Stimulate Growth of the Fungal Pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus.	"Chronic lung infections with opportunistic bacterial and fungal pathogens are a major cause of morbidity and mortality especially in patients with cystic fibrosis. Pseudomonas aeruginosa is the most frequently colonizing bacterium in these patients, and it is often found in association with the filamentous fungus Aspergillus fumigatus. P. aeruginosa is known to inhibit the growth of A. fumigatus in situations of direct contact, suggesting the existence of interspecies communication that may influence disease outcome. Our study shows that the lung pathogens P. aeruginosa and A. fumigatus can interact at a distance via volatile-mediated communication and expands our understanding of interspecific signaling in microbial communities. Microbiota studies have shown that pathogens cannot be studied individually anymore and that the establishment and progression of a specific disease are due not to a single microbial species but are the result of the activity of many species living together. To date, the interaction between members of the human microbiota has been analyzed in situations of direct contact or liquid-mediated contact between organisms. This study showed unexpectedly that human opportunistic pathogens can interact at a distance after sensing volatiles emitted by another microbial species. This finding will open a new research avenue for the understanding of microbial communities."	
32384684		"Diagnostics (Basel, Switzerland)"	The Detection of Bile Acids in the Lungs of Paediatric Cystic Fibrosis Patients Is Associated with Altered Inflammatory Patterns.	": Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a hereditary disorder in which persistent unresolved inflammation and recurrent airway infections play major roles in the initiation and progression of the disease. Little is known about triggering factors modulating the transition to chronic microbial infection and inflammation particularly in young children. Cystic fibrosis respiratory disease starts early in life, with the detection of inflammatory markers and infection evident even before respiratory symptoms arise. Thus, identifying factors that dysregulate immune responsiveness at the earliest stages of the disease will provide novel targets for early therapeutic intervention. : We evaluated the clinical significance of bile acid detection in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of clinically stable preschool-aged children diagnosed with CF. : We applied an unbiased classification strategy to categorize these specimens based on bile acid profiles. We provide clear associations linking the presence of bile acids in the lungs with alterations in the expression of inflammatory markers. Using multiple regression analysis, we also demonstrate that clustering based on bile acid profiles is a meaningful predictor of the progression of structural lung disease. : Altogether, our work has identified a clinically relevant host-derived factor that may participate in shaping early events in the aetiology of CF respiratory disease."	
29742432		Cell reports	IL-9 and Mast Cells Are Key Players of Candida albicans Commensalism and Pathogenesis in the Gut.	"Candida albicans is implicated in intestinal diseases. Identifying host signatures that discriminate between the pathogenic versus commensal nature of this human commensal is clinically relevant. In the present study, we identify IL-9 and mast cells (MCs) as key players of Candida commensalism and pathogenicity. By inducing TGF-β in stromal MCs, IL-9 pivotally contributes to mucosal immune tolerance via the indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase enzyme. However, Candida-driven IL-9 and mucosal MCs also contribute to barrier function loss, dissemination, and inflammation in experimental leaky gut models and are upregulated in patients with celiac disease. Inflammatory dysbiosis occurs with IL-9 and MC deficiency, indicating that the activity of IL-9 and MCs may go beyond host immunity to include regulation of the microbiota. Thus, the output of the IL-9/MC axis is highly contextual during Candida colonization and reveals how host immunity and the microbiota finely tune Candida behavior in the gut."	
28721248		NPJ biofilms and microbiomes	Reaction-diffusion theory explains hypoxia and heterogeneous growth within microbial biofilms associated with chronic infections.	"Reaction-diffusion models were applied to gain insight into the aspects of biofilm infection and persistence by comparing mathematical simulations with the experimental data from varied bacterial biofilms. These comparisons, including three  systems and two clinical investigations of specimens examined , underscored the central importance of concentration gradients of metabolic substrates and the resulting physiological heterogeneity of the microorganisms. Relatively simple one-dimensional and two-dimensional (2D) models captured the: (1) experimentally determined distribution of specific growth rates measured in  cells within sputum from cystic fibrosis patients; (2) pattern of relative growth rate within aggregates of streptococcal biofilm harboured in an endocarditis vegetation; (3) incomplete penetration of oxygen into a  biofilm under conditions of exposure to ambient air and also pure oxygen; (4) localisation of anabolic activity around the periphery of  cell clusters formed in a flow cell and attribution of this pattern to iron limitation; (5) very low specific growth rates, as small as 0.025 h, in the interior of cell clusters within a  biofilm in a complex 2D domain of variable cell density."	
36348267		BMC bioinformatics	C3NA: correlation and consensus-based cross-taxonomy network analysis for compositional microbial data.	"Studying the co-occurrence network structure of microbial samples is one of the critical approaches to understanding the perplexing and delicate relationship between the microbe, host, and diseases. It is also critical to develop a tool for investigating co-occurrence networks and differential abundance analyses to reveal the disease-related taxa-taxa relationship. In addition, it is also necessary to tighten the co-occurrence network into smaller modules to increase the ability for functional annotation and interpretability of  these taxa-taxa relationships.  Also, it is critical to retain the phylogenetic relationship among the taxa to identify differential abundance patterns, which can be used to resolve contradicting functions reported by different studies. In this article, we present Correlation and Consensus-based Cross-taxonomy Network Analysis (C3NA), a user-friendly R package for investigating compositional microbial sequencing data to identify and compare co-occurrence patterns across different taxonomic levels. C3NA contains two interactive graphic user interfaces (Shiny applications), one of them dedicated to the comparison between two diagnoses, e.g., disease versus control. We used C3NA to analyze two well-studied diseases, colorectal cancer, and Crohn's disease. We discovered clusters of study and disease-dependent taxa that overlap with known functional taxa studied by other discovery studies and differential abundance analyses. C3NA offers a new microbial data analyses pipeline for refined and enriched taxa-taxa co-occurrence network analyses, and the usability was further expanded via the built-in Shiny applications for interactive investigation."	
38066368		"Methods in molecular biology (Clifton, N.J.)"	Studying Bacteriophage Efficacy Using a Zebrafish Model.	"The rise of bacteria resistant to the antibiotics currently in use (multiple drug-resistant, MDR) is a serious problem for patients affected by infections. This situation is even more worrying in the case of chronic bacterial infections, such as those caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa (Pa), in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). As an alternative to antibiotic treatments, the use of bacteriophages (phages) to fight bacterial infections has gained increasing interest in the last few years. Phages are viruses that specifically infect and multiply within the bacteria without infecting eukaryotic cells. It is well assumed that phage therapy has a high bacterial specificity, which, unlike antibiotics, should limit the damage to the endogenous microbiome. In addition, phages can kill antibiotic-resistant bacteria and perform self-amplification at the site of the infection.The protocol detailed in this chapter describes how the antimicrobial effect of phages can be studied in vivo in the zebrafish (Danio rerio) model infected with Pa. The same procedure can be applied to test the effectiveness of several different phages killing other bacterial species and for the rapid preclinical testing of phages to be used as personalized medicine."	
37630626		Microorganisms	The Interplay between Microbiota and Human Complex Traits.	Microorganisms have been one of the most influential drivers propelling some of the greatest environmental and evolutionary changes in the landscape and biology of the entire planet [...].	
37205984		Oncoimmunology	"{'i': 'Staphylococcus epidermidis', '#text': 'Prevention and treatment of cancers by tumor antigen-expressing .'}"	In a recent paper in  Chen . reported the genetic engineering of  expressing tumor cross-reactive antigens that trigger T cell responses and exhibit anticancer effects after topical administration. Here we discuss direct local effects and indirect systemic effects of exposure to engineered  strains.	
37633341		European journal of pharmaceutical sciences : official journal of the European Federation for Pharmaceutical Sciences	The development and characterization of in vivo-like three-dimensional models of bronchial epithelial cell lines.	"In vitro models of differentiated respiratory epithelium that allow high-throughput screening are an important tool to explore new therapeutics for chronic respiratory diseases. In the present study, we developed in vivo-like three-dimensional (3-D) models of bronchial epithelial cell lines that are commonly used to study chronic lung disease (16HBE14o, CFBE41o and CFBE41o 6.2 WT-CFTR). To this end, cells were cultured on porous microcarrier beads in the rotating wall vessel (RWV) bioreactor, an optimized suspension culture method that allows higher throughput experimentation than other physiologically relevant models. Cell differentiation was compared to conventional two-dimensional (2-D) monolayer cultures and to the current gold standard in the respiratory field, i.e. air-liquid interface (ALI) cultures. Cellular differentiation was assessed in the three model systems by evaluating the expression and localization of markers that reflect the formation of tight junctions (zonula occludens 1), cell polarity (intercellular adhesion molecule 1 at the apical side and collagen IV expression at the basal cell side), multicellular complexity (acetylated α-tubulin for ciliated cells, CC10 for club cells, keratin-5 for basal cells) and mucus production (MUC5AC) through immunostaining and confocal laser scanning microscopy. Results were validated using Western Blot analysis. We found that tight junctions were expressed in 2-D monolayers, ALI cultures and 3-D models for all three cell lines. All tested bronchial epithelial cell lines showed polarization in ALI and 3-D cultures, but not in 2-D monolayers. Mucus secreting goblet-like cells were present in ALI and 3-D cultures of CFBE41o and CFBE41o 6.2 WT-CFTR cells, but not in 16HBE14o cells. For all cell lines, there were no ciliated cells, basal cells, or club cells found in any of the model systems. In conclusion, we developed RWV-derived 3-D models of commonly used bronchial epithelial cell lines and showed that these models are a valuable alternative to ALI cultures, as they recapitulate similar key aspects of the in vivo parental tissue."	
28721244		NPJ biofilms and microbiomes	"{'i': 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa', '#text': 'Tobramycin and bicarbonate synergise to kill planktonic , but antagonise to promote biofilm survival.'}"	"Increasing antibiotic resistance and the declining rate at which new antibiotics come into use create a need to increase the efficacy of existing antibiotics. The aminoglycoside tobramycin is standard-of-care for many types of  infections, including those in the lungs of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients.  is a nosocomial and opportunistic pathogen that, in planktonic form, causes acute infections and, in biofilm form, causes chronic infections. Inhaled bicarbonate has recently been proposed as a therapy to improve antimicrobial properties of the CF airway surface liquid and viscosity of CF mucus. Here we measure the effect of combining tobramycin and bicarbonate against , both lab strains and CF clinical isolates. Bicarbonate synergises with tobramycin to enhance killing of planktonic bacteria. In contrast, bicarbonate antagonises with tobramycin to promote better biofilm growth. This suggests caution when evaluating bicarbonate as a therapy for CF lungs infected with  biofilms. We analyse tobramycin and bicarbonate interactions using an interpolated surface methodology to measure the dose-response function. These surfaces allow more accurate estimation of combinations yielding synergy and antagonism than do standard isobolograms. By incorporating predictions based on Loewe additivity theory, we can consolidate information on a wide range of combinations that produce a complex dose-response surface, into a single number that measures the net effect. This tool thus allows rapid initial estimation of the potential benefit or harm of a therapeutic combination. Software code is freely made available as a resource for the community."	
32867100		Metabolites	Dependence of the Staphylococcal Volatilome Composition on Microbial Nutrition.	"In vitro cultivation of staphylococci is fundamental to both clinical and research microbiology, but few studies, to-date, have investigated how the differences in rich media can influence the volatilome of cultivated bacteria. The objective of this study was to determine the influence of rich media composition on the chemical characteristics of the volatilomes of  and .  (ATCC 12600) and  (ATCC 12228) were cultured in triplicate in four rich complex media (brain heart infusion (BHI), lysogeny broth (LB), Mueller Hinton broth (MHB), and tryptic soy broth (TSB)), and the volatile metabolites produced by each culture were analyzed using headspace solid-phase microextraction combined with comprehensive two-dimensional gas chromatography-time-of-flight mass spectrometry (HS-SPME-GC×GC-TOFMS). When comparing the chemical compositions of the staph volatilomes by the presence versus absence of volatiles produced in each medium, we observed few differences. However, when the relative abundances of volatiles were included in the analyses, we observed that culturing staph in media containing free glucose (BHI and TSB) resulted in volatilomes dominated by acids and esters (67%). The low-glucose media (LB and MHB) produced ketones in greatest relative abundances, but the volatilome compositions in these two media were highly dissimilar. We conclude that the staphylococcal volatilome is strongly influenced by the nutritional composition of the growth medium, especially the availability of free glucose, which is much more evident when the relative abundances of the volatiles are analyzed, compared to the presence versus absence."	
29099689		"Microbiology (Reading, England)"	"{'i': 'Burkholderia cenocepacia', '#text': 'Identification of novel small RNAs in  KC-01 expressed under iron limitation and oxidative stress conditions.'}"	"Small RNA (sRNA)-mediated regulation of gene expression is a major tool to understand bacterial responses to environmental changes. In particular, pathogenic bacteria employ sRNAs to adapt to the host environment and establish infection. Members of the  complex, normally present in soil microbiota, cause nosocomial lung infection especially in hospitalized cystic fibrosis patients. We sequenced the draft genome of  KC-01, isolated from the coastal saline soil, and identified several potential sRNAs . Expression of seven small RNAs (Bc_KC_sr1-7) was subsequently confirmed. Two sRNAs (Bc_KC_sr1 and Bc_KC_sr2) were upregulated in response to iron depletion by 2,2'-bipyridyl and another two (Bc_KC_sr3 and Bc_KC_sr4) responded to the presence of 60 µM HO in the culture media. Bc_Kc_sr5, 6 and 7 remained unchanged under these conditions. Expression of Bc_KC_sr2, 3 and 4 also altered with a change in temperature and incubation time. A search in the Rfam and BSRD databases identified Bc_Kc_sr4 as candidate738 in  D286 and assigned Bc_Kc_sr5 and 6 as tmRNA and 6S RNA, respectively. The novel sRNAs were conserved in  but did not have any homologue in other genera. Bc_KC_sr1 and 4 were transcribed independently while the rest were part of the 3' UTR of their upstream genes. TargetRNA2 predicted that these sRNAs could target a host of cellular messages with very high stringency. Intriguingly, regions surrounding the translation initiation site for several enzymes involved in Fe-S cluster and siderophore biosynthesis, ROS homeostasis, porins, transcription and translation regulators, were among the suggested putative binding sites for these sRNAs."	
31433997		Pulmonary pharmacology & therapeutics	Efficacy and safety of tobramycin inhalation powder in bronchiectasis patients with P. aeruginosa infection: Design of a dose-finding study (iBEST-1).	"In patients with bronchiectasis (BE), infection with Pseudomonas aeruginosa (Pa) results in disease progression, frequent pulmonary exacerbations and lung function decline. However, at present, no inhaled antibiotics have been approved for the treatment of these patients. Tobramycin inhalation powder (TIP), approved for treatment of Pa infection in cystic fibrosis, could be a promising candidate. We aimed to assess effective and well-tolerated doses and regimens of TIP in BE patients with Pa infection. In this phase II, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised study, three different daily doses of TIP are administered either as continuous or cyclical regimens. The study protocol comprises 7-28 days of screening, 112 days of double-blind treatment and 56 days of follow-up. The plan was to enrol 180 patients (aged ≥18 years) with BE, documented Pa infection and a history of exacerbations. The primary outcome is change in sputum Pa density from baseline. Key secondary outcomes include number of pulmonary exacerbations, use of antipseudomonal antibiotics, serum and sputum tobramycin concentrations, quality of life and safety. Exploratory endpoints include lung clearance index, sputum inflammatory markers and microbiome analysis. As of October 2018, 107/180 patients were enrolled at 34 sites (six countries) following which recruitment was closed for administrative reasons unrelated to safety findings. Despite a reduced sample size from initially planned enrolment, the unique design may inform the benefit-risk profile of TIP in BE patients with chronic Pa infection. Moreover, several novel and exploratory endpoints (lung clearance index, inflammatory biomarkers, lung microbiome), will contribute to the advancement of research in this area."	
35635736		The Journal of pathology	Recent Advances in Pathology: the 2022 Annual Review Issue of The Journal of Pathology.	"The 2022 Annual Review Issue of The Journal of Pathology, Recent Advances in Pathology, contains 15 invited reviews on research areas of growing importance in pathology. This year, the articles include those that focus on digital pathology, employing modern imaging techniques and software to enable improved diagnostic and research applications to study human diseases. This subject area includes the ability to identify specific genetic alterations through the morphological changes they induce, as well as integrating digital and computational pathology with 'omics technologies. Other reviews in this issue include an updated evaluation of mutational patterns (mutation signatures) in cancer, the applications of lineage tracing in human tissues, and single cell sequencing technologies to uncover tumour evolution and tumour heterogeneity. The tissue microenvironment is covered in reviews specifically dealing with proteolytic control of epidermal differentiation, cancer-associated fibroblasts, field cancerisation, and host factors that determine tumour immunity. All of the reviews contained in this issue are the work of invited experts selected to discuss the considerable recent progress in their respective fields and are freely available online (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/10969896). © 2022 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd."	
36836336		"Journal of fungi (Basel, Switzerland)"	"{'i': ['Aspergillus fumigatus', 'Klebsiella pneumoniae'], '#text': 'Exposure of  to  Culture Filtrate Inhibits Growth and Stimulates Gliotoxin Production.'}"	"is an opportunistic fungal pathogen capable of inducing chronic and acute infection in susceptible patients.  interacts with numerous bacteria that compose the microbiota of the lung, including  and , both of which are common isolates from cystic fibrosis sputum. Exposure of  to  culture filtrate reduced fungal growth and increased gliotoxin production. Qualitative proteomic analysis of the  culture filtrate identified proteins associated with metal sequestering, enzymatic degradation and redox activity, which may impact fungal growth and development. Quantitative proteomic analysis of  following exposure to  culture filtrate (25% /) for 24 h revealed a reduced abundance of 1,3-beta-glucanosyltransferase (-3.97 fold), methyl sterol monooxygenase erg25B (-2.9 fold) and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (-4.2 fold) involved in fungal development, and increased abundance of glutathione S-transferase GliG (+6.17 fold), non-ribosomal peptide synthase GliP (+3.67 fold), O-methyltransferase GliM (+3.5 fold), gamma-glutamyl acyltransferase GliK (+2.89 fold) and thioredoxin reductase GliT (+2.33 fold) involved in gliotoxin production. These results reveal that exposure of  to  in vivo could exacerbate infection and negatively impact patient prognosis."	
31921058		Frontiers in microbiology	"{'i': ['in vitro', 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa', 'Staphylococcus aureus'], '#text': 'Despite Antagonism ,  Enhances  Colonization in a Murine Lung Infection Model.'}"	"and  are prevalent lung pathogens in cystic fibrosis (CF). Whereas co-infection worsens the clinical outcome, prototypical strains are usually antagonistic . We sought to resolve the discrepancy between these  and  observations. , growth kinetics for co-cultures of co-isolates from CF patients showed that not all  strains affected  viability. On solid media,  slow-growing colonies were visualized around some  strains whether or not  viability was reduced in liquid co-cultures. The  interactions were then characterized in a mouse lung infection model. Lung homogenates were plated on selective media allowing colony counts of either bacterium. Overall, 35  and 10  strains (clinical, reference, and mutant strains), for a total of 200 co-infections, were evaluated. We observed that  colonization of lung tissues was promoted by  and even by strains showing antagonism . Promotion was proportional to the extent of  colonization, but no correlation was found with the degree of myeloperoxidase quantification (as marker of inflammation) or with specific virulence-associated factors using known mutant strains of  and . On the other hand,  significantly increased the expression of two possible cell receptors for , ., ICAM-1 and ITGA-5 (marker for integrin αβ) in lung tissue, while mono-infections by  did not. This study provides insights on polymicrobial interactions that may influence the progression of CF-associated pulmonary infections."	
35630363		Microorganisms	"{'i': ['Bacillus', 'Origanum vulgare'], '#text': 'Genomic Analysis of Endophytic -Related Strains Isolated from the Medicinal Plant  L. Revealed the Presence of Metabolic Pathways Involved in the Biosynthesis of Bioactive Compounds.'}"	"Multidrug-resistant pathogens represent a serious threat to human health. The inefficacy of traditional antibiotic drugs could be surmounted through the exploitation of natural bioactive compounds of which medicinal plants are a great reservoir. The finding that bacteria living inside plant tissues, (i.e., the endophytic bacterial microbiome) can influence the synthesis of the aforementioned compounds leads to the necessity of unraveling the mechanisms involved in the determination of this symbiotic relationship. Here, we report the genome sequence of four endophytic bacterial strains isolated from the medicinal plant  L. and able to antagonize the growth of opportunistic pathogens of cystic fibrosis patients. The in silico analysis revealed the presence of gene clusters involved in the production of antimicrobial compounds, such as paeninodin, paenilarvins, polymyxin, and paenicidin A. Endophytes' adaptation to the plant microenvironment was evaluated through the analysis of the presence of antibiotic resistance genes in the four genomes. The diesel fuel degrading potential was also tested. Strains grew in minimum media supplemented with diesel fuel, but no -alkanes degradation genes were found in their genomes, suggesting that diesel fuel degradation might occur through other steps involving enzymes catalyzing the oxidation of aromatic compounds."	
38966049		"Bioscience of microbiota, food and health"	"{'i': 'Bifidobacterium longum', '#text': 'Activation of chloride channels and promotion of bowel movements by heat-killed  CLA8013.'}"	"Constipation is strongly associated with the deterioration of quality of life (QOL), and patients with constipation desire clear spontaneous defecation without the feeling of incomplete evacuation, rather than improved defecation frequency. The use of common osmotic or stimulant laxatives has not been shown to lead to a satisfactory improvement of bowel movements. In addition, softening of stools by increasing their water content has been reported to increase the frequency of spontaneous defecation and improve hard stools, straining during defecation, and abdominal symptoms, such as abdominal bloating, thereby leading to improvement of QOL deterioration caused by constipation. Thus, the present study screened bacterial strains  using intestinal epithelial T84 cells, aiming to identify one that activates chloride channels involved in water secretion into the intestinal tract. As a result, the conditioned medium of  CLA8013 was found to induce ion transport. Also, this effect was suppressed by cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) (inh)-172, a CFTR chloride channel inhibitor. Furthermore, both live and heat-killed CLA8013 similarly induced ion transport, suggesting that bacterial cell components are responsible for the effect. In addition, the administration of heat-killed CLA8013 to loperamide-induced constipation rats resulted in an increase in fecal water content and promoted defecation. These results suggest that the active components in CLA8013 act on CFTR chloride channels in the intestinal tract, promote water secretion into the intestinal tract, and soften stools, thereby promoting bowel movements."	
28970943		NPJ biofilms and microbiomes	Towards individualized diagnostics of biofilm-associated infections: a case study.	"Organized within biofilm communities, bacteria exhibit resistance towards a broad spectrum of antibiotics. Thus, one might argue that bacteria isolated from biofilm-associated chronic infections should be subjected to resistance profiling under biofilm growth conditions. Various test systems have been developed to determine the biofilm-associated resistance; however, it is not clear to what extent the in vitro results reflect the situation in vivo, and whether the biofilm-resistance profile should guide clinicians in their treatment choice. To address this issue, we used confocal microscopy in combination with live/dead staining, and profiled biofilm-associated resistance of a large number (>130) of clinical  isolates from overall 15 cystic fibrosis patients. Our results demonstrate that in addition to a general non-responsiveness of bacteria when grown under biofilm conditions, there is an isolate-specific and antibiotic-specific biofilm-resistance profile. This individual resistance profile is independent on the structural properties of the biofilms. Furthermore, biofilm resistance is not linked to the resistance profile under planktonic growth conditions, or a mucoid, or small colony morphology of the tested isolates. Instead, it seems that individual biofilm structures evolve during biofilm-associated growth and are shaped by environment-specific cues. In conclusion, our results demonstrate that biofilm resistance profiles are isolate specific and cannot be deduced from commonly studied phenotypes. Further clinical studies will have to show the added value of biofilm-resistance profiling. Individualized diagnosis of biofilm resistance might lead to more rational recommendations for antimicrobial therapy and, thus, increased effectiveness of the treatment of chronically infected patients."	
31555243		Frontiers in microbiology	"{'i': 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa', '#text': 'Exposure to Bile Leads to the Emergence of Adaptive Signaling Variants in the Opportunistic Pathogen .'}"	"The chronic colonization of the respiratory tract by the opportunistic pathogen  is the primary cause of morbidity and mortality in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients.  has been shown to undergo extensive genomic adaptation facilitating its persistence within the CF lung allowing it to evade the host immune response and outcompete co-colonizing residents of the lung microbiota. However, whilst several studies have described the various mutations that frequently arise in clinical isolates of , the environmental factors governing the emergence of these genetic variants is less well characterized. Gastro-oesophageal reflux has recently emerged as a major co-morbidity in CF and is often associated with the presence of bile acids in the lungs most likely by (micro) aspiration. In order to investigate whether bile may select for genetic variants,  was experimentally evolved in artificial sputum medium, a synthetic media resembling environmental conditions found within the CF lung. Pigmented derivatives of  emerged exclusively in the presence of bile. Genome sequencing analysis identified single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in quorum sensing () and both the pyocyanin () and pyomelanin () biosynthetic pathways. Phenotypic analysis revealed an altered bile response when compared to the ancestral  progenitor strain. While the recovered pigmented derivatives retained the bile mediated suppression of swarming motility and enhanced antibiotic tolerance, the biofilm, and redox responses to bile were abolished in the adapted mutants. Though loss of pseudomonas quinolone signal (PQS) production in the pigmented isolates was not linked to the altered biofilm response, the loss of redox repression could be explained by defective alkyl-quinolone (AQ) production in the presence of bile. Collectively, these findings suggest that the adaptive variants of  that arise following long term bile exposure enables the emergence of ecologically competitive sub-populations. Altered pigmentation and AQ signaling may contribute to an enhancement in fitness facilitating population survival within a bile positive environment."	
37271375		Journal of microbiological methods	Improved engineering of Pseudomonas aeruginosa to study the adaptation of pyoverdine production under intra- or inter- specific bacterial competition.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PA) is a common cause of chronic infections, particularly feared by cystic fibrosis patients. PA colonizes the lung where it adapts to the local environment, and/or to treatments by drugs. This genotypic and phenotypic adaptation, in turns, influences its interaction with its environment, like bacteria from the microbiota. As an example, to access iron, PA produces and secretes two siderophores, pyoverdine and pyochelin that are iron chelators scavenging iron from the environment and bringing it back into the bacterial cells. Siderophores production depends on the level of iron starvation, on the presence of other bacteria, etc. this latter component being less well investigated. Even if studies on bacterial interactions, and their evolution, have been increasing since several years, we are still facing a lack of tools, for example, to specifically follow the growth of PA isolates in such competitive environments. We thus improved a cloning method to gain time in the cloning steps, to lower the polar effects, and to accurately follow the interactions of any PA isolate with other bacteria. For that, a fluorescent reporter gene was inserted between two genes, the glutamine-fructose-6-phosphate transaminase (glmS) and PA5548. This reporter was efficiently produced either from an inducible or a house-keeping promoter, and its expression did not lead to polar effects. We used this strain to study intra and inter-specific bacterial competitions for iron between different lung pathogens. We thus grew wild-type PA together either with an isogenic PA ΔpvdS variant, that does not produce the most efficient siderophore pyoverdine, or with Klebsiella pneumoniae or Acinetobacter baumanii, two other lung pathogens. We finally monitored the effect of the loss of pvdS on the competition between PA and the other bacterial species. These studies enabled us to differentiate intra from inter specific competitions, both arising in the lung environment, and pinpoint the importance of the bacterial specie for the adaptation of pyoverdine production."	
37168452		Animal nutrition (Zhongguo xu mu shou yi xue hui)	Low Ca diet leads to increased Ca retention by changing the gut flora and ileal pH value in laying hens.	"Osteoporosis is a common degenerative metabolic bone disease in caged laying hens. Intensive egg production mobilizing large amounts of Ca from bone for eggshell formation, consequently leading to Ca deficiency, has been recognized as a critical factor causing osteoporosis in commercial laying hens. The aim of this study was to examine the effect of Ca deficiency on the function of the gut microbiota-bone axis and related egg production traits and bone health in laying hens. Twenty-four 48-week-old laying hens were fed a control diet (Control, 3.72%) or a low Ca diet (LC, 2.04%) for 60 d ( = 12). Compared to the Control hens, the LC hens had higher levels of alkaline phosphatase and tartrate resistant acid phosphatase ( < 0.05) with lower bone strength, eggshell thickness, and eggshell strength ( < 0.05). In addition, the LC hens had higher plasma estradiol concentrations, while having lower concentrations of interleukin-1 (IL-1) and IL-6. The LC hens also had a lower pH value in the ileum with an increased Ca retention. The principal co-ordinates analysis showed significantly separate cecal microbiota populations between the Control and LC hens. The  and  ( < 0.05) were higher, while the  and  ( < 0.05) were lower at the genus level in the LC hens. In addition,  and  had a negative correlation, while  was positively correlated with ileal pH values. The transcriptome analysis revealed that the low Ca diet caused 20 and 31 genes to be significantly up- and down-regulated, respectively. The gene expressions of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator, solute carrier family 26 member 3 of the anion exchangers, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 12 of pro-inflammatory factors were lower in the LC birds, which was correlated with the lower ileal pH values. These results suggest that the hens with low Ca diet-induced osteoporosis have an increased intestinal Ca retention with a decreased ileal pH value, correlated with the changes in  and  of beneficial genera. The results provide insights for further understanding and preventing osteoporosis in laying hens."	
28584706		PeerJ	Impact of enzymatic digestion on bacterial community composition in CF airway samples.	"Previous studies have demonstrated the importance of DNA extraction methods for molecular detection of  an important bacterial group in cystic fibrosis (CF). We sought to evaluate the effect of enzymatic digestion (EnzD) prior to DNA extraction on bacterial communities identified in sputum and oropharyngeal swab (OP) samples from patients with CF. DNA from 81 samples (39 sputum and 42 OP) collected from 63 patients with CF was extracted in duplicate with and without EnzD. Bacterial communities were determined by rRNA gene sequencing, and measures of alpha and beta diversity were calculated. Principal Coordinate Analysis (PCoA) was used to assess differences at the community level and Wilcoxon Signed Rank tests were used to compare relative abundance (RA) of individual genera for paired samples with and without EnzD. Shannon Diversity Index (alpha-diversity) decreased in sputum and OP samples with the use of EnzD. Larger shifts in community composition were observed for OP samples (beta-diversity, measured by Morisita-Horn), whereas less change in communities was observed for sputum samples. The use of EnzD with OP swabs resulted in significant increase in RA for the genera  ( < 0.01),  ( < 0.01), and  ( < 0.01).  ( < 0.01) was the only genus with a significant increase in RA from sputum, whereas the following genera decreased in RA with EnzD:  ( < 0.01),  ( < 0.01),  ( < 0.01), and  ( = 0.02). In OP samples, higher RA of Gram-positive taxa was associated with larger changes in microbial community composition. We show that the application of EnzD to CF airway samples, particularly OP swabs, results in differences in microbial communities detected by sequencing. Use of EnzD can result in large changes in bacterial community composition, and is particularly useful for detection of  in CF OP samples. The enhanced identification of  is a strong indication to utilize EnzD in studies that use OP swabs to monitor CF airway communities."	
34775029		The Journal of molecular diagnostics : JMD	Comparison of Whole Genome Sequencing and Repetitive Element PCR for Multidrug-Resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa Strain Typing.	"Hospital-acquired infections pose significant costly global challenges to patient care. Rapid and sensitive methods to identify potential outbreaks are integral to infection control measures. Whole-genome sequencing (WGS)-based bacterial strain typing provides higher discriminatory power over standard nucleotide banding pattern-based methods such as repetitive sequence-based PCR (rep-PCR). However, integration of WGS into clinical epidemiology is limited by the lack of consensus in methodology and data analysis/interpretation. In this study, WGS was performed on genomic DNA extracted from 22 multidrug-resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa (MDR-PA) isolates using next-generation sequencing. Resulting high-quality reads were analyzed for phylogenetic relatedness using a whole-genome multilocus sequence typing (wgMLST)-based software program and single-nucleotide variant phylogenomics (SNVPhyl). WGS-based results were compared with conventional MLST and archived rep-PCR results. Rep-PCR identified three independent clonal clusters of MDR-PA. Only one clonal cluster identified by rep-PCR, an endemic strain within the pediatric cystic fibrosis population at Texas Children's Hospital, was concordantly identified using wgMLST and SNVPhyl. Results were highly consistent between the three sequence-based analyses (conventional MLST, wgMLST, and SNVPhyl), and these results remained consistent with the addition of 74 MDR-PA genomes. These WGS-based methods provided greater resolution for strain discrimination than rep-PCR or standard MLST classification, and the ease of use of wgMLST software renders it clinically viable for analysis, interpretation, and reporting of WGS-based strain typing."	
37068103		PLoS computational biology	A fast machine-learning-guided primer design pipeline for selective whole genome amplification.	"Addressing many of the major outstanding questions in the fields of microbial evolution and pathogenesis will require analyses of populations of microbial genomes. Although population genomic studies provide the analytical resolution to investigate evolutionary and mechanistic processes at fine spatial and temporal scales-precisely the scales at which these processes occur-microbial population genomic research is currently hindered by the practicalities of obtaining sufficient quantities of the relatively pure microbial genomic DNA necessary for next-generation sequencing. Here we present swga2.0, an optimized and parallelized pipeline to design selective whole genome amplification (SWGA) primer sets. Unlike previous methods, swga2.0 incorporates active and machine learning methods to evaluate the amplification efficacy of individual primers and primer sets. Additionally, swga2.0 optimizes primer set search and evaluation strategies, including parallelization at each stage of the pipeline, to dramatically decrease program runtime. Here we describe the swga2.0 pipeline, including the empirical data used to identify primer and primer set characteristics, that improve amplification performance. Additionally, we evaluate the novel swga2.0 pipeline by designing primer sets that successfully amplify Prevotella melaninogenica, an important component of the lung microbiome in cystic fibrosis patients, from samples dominated by human DNA."	
25385800		Infection and immunity	Contribution of Veillonella parvula to Pseudomonas aeruginosa-mediated pathogenicity in a murine tumor model system.	"The recent finding that high numbers of strict anaerobes are present in the respiratory tract of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients has drawn attention to the pathogenic contribution of the CF microbiome to airway disease. In this study, we investigated the specific interactions of the most dominant bacterial CF pathogen, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, with the anaerobic bacterium Veillonella parvula, which has been recovered at comparable cell numbers from the respiratory tract of CF patients. In addition to growth competition experiments, transcriptional profiling, and analyses of biofilm formation by in vitro studies, we used our recently established in vivo murine tumor model to investigate mutual influences of the two pathogens during a biofilm-associated infection process. We found that P. aeruginosa and V. parvula colonized distinct niches within the tumor. Interestingly, significantly higher cell numbers of P. aeruginosa could be recovered from the tumor tissue when mice were coinfected with both bacterial species than when mice were monoinfected with P. aeruginosa. Concordantly, the results of in vivo transcriptional profiling implied that the presence of V. parvula supports P. aeruginosa growth at the site of infection in the host, and the higher P. aeruginosa load correlated with clinical deterioration of the host. Although many challenges must be overcome to dissect the specific interactions of coinfecting bacteria during an infection process, our findings exemplarily demonstrate that the complex interrelations between coinfecting microorganisms and the immune responses determine clinical outcome to a much greater extent than previously anticipated."	
27708627		Frontiers in microbiology	"{'i': 'Streptomyces', '#text': 'A Phenotypic and Genotypic Analysis of the Antimicrobial Potential of Cultivable  Isolated from Cave Moonmilk Deposits.'}"	"Moonmilk speleothems of limestone caves host a rich microbiome, among which Actinobacteria represent one of the most abundant phyla. Ancient medical texts reported that moonmilk had therapeutical properties, thereby suggesting that its filamentous endemic actinobacterial population might be a source of natural products useful in human treatment. In this work, a screening approach was undertaken in order to isolate cultivable Actinobacteria from moonmilk of the Grotte des Collemboles in Belgium, to evaluate their taxonomic profile, and to assess their potential in biosynthesis of antimicrobials. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that all 78 isolates were exclusively affiliated to the genus  and clustered into 31 distinct phylotypes displaying various pigmentation patterns and morphological features. Phylotype representatives were tested for antibacterial and antifungal activities and their genomes were mined for secondary metabolite biosynthetic genes coding for non-ribosomal peptide synthetases (NRPSs), and polyketide synthases (PKS). The moonmilk  collection was found to display strong inhibitory activities against a wide range of reference organisms, as 94, 71, and 94% of the isolates inhibited or impaired the growth of Gram-positive, Gram-negative bacteria, and fungi, respectively. Interestingly, 90% of the cave strains induced strong growth suppression against the multi-drug resistant , a causative agent of invasive mycosis in cystic fibrosis and chronic granulomatous diseases. No correlation was observed between the global antimicrobial activity of an individual strain and the number of NRPS and PKS genes predicted in its genome, suggesting that approaches for awakening cryptic metabolites biosynthesis should be applied to isolates with no antimicrobial phenotype. Overall, our work supports the common belief that moonmilk might effectively treat various infectious diseases thanks to the presence of a highly diverse population of prolific antimicrobial producing , and thus may indeed constitute a promising reservoir of potentially novel active natural compounds."	
31540982		Applied and environmental microbiology	Loci Encoding Compounds Potentially Active against Drug-Resistant Pathogens amidst a Decreasing Pool of Novel Antibiotics.	"Since the discovery of penicillin, microbes have been a source of antibiotics that inhibit the growth of pathogens. However, with the evolution of multidrug-resistant (MDR) strains, it remains unclear if there is an abundant or limited supply of natural products to be discovered that are effective against MDR isolates. To identify strains that are antagonistic to pathogens, we examined a set of 471 globally derived environmental  strains (env-Ps) for activity against a panel of 65 pathogens including  spp.,  spp., , and  spp. isolated from the lungs of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. From more than 30,000 competitive interactions, 1,530 individual inhibitory events were observed. While strains from water habitats were not proportionate in antagonistic activity, MDR CF-derived pathogens (CF-Ps) were less susceptible to inhibition by env-Ps, suggesting that fewer natural products are effective against MDR strains. These results advocate for a directed strategy to identify unique drugs. To facilitate discovery of antibiotics against the most resistant pathogens, we developed a workflow in which phylogenetic and antagonistic data were merged to identify strains that inhibit MDR CF-Ps and subjected those env-Ps to transposon mutagenesis. Six different biosynthetic gene clusters (BGCs) were identified from four strains whose products inhibited pathogens including carbapenem-resistant  BGCs were rare in databases, suggesting the production of novel antibiotics. This strategy can be utilized to facilitate the discovery of needed antibiotics that are potentially active against the most drug-resistant pathogens. Carbapenem-resistant  is difficult to treat and has been deemed by the World Health Organization as a priority one pathogen for which antibiotics are most urgently needed. Although metagenomics and bioinformatic studies suggest that natural bacteria remain a source of novel compounds, the identification of genes and their products specific to activity against MDR pathogens remains problematic. Here, we examine water-derived pseudomonads and identify gene clusters whose compounds inhibit CF-derived MDR pathogens, including carbapenem-resistant ."	
33916474		Metabolites	"{'i': 'Burkholderia cenocepacia', '#text': 'Revealing the Metabolic Alterations during Biofilm Development of  Based on Genome-Scale Metabolic Modeling.'}"	"is among the important pathogens isolated from cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. It has attracted considerable attention because of its capacity to evade host immune defenses during chronic infection. Advances in systems biology methodologies have led to the emergence of methods that integrate experimental transcriptomics data and genome-scale metabolic models (GEMs). Here, we integrated transcriptomics data of bacterial cells grown on exponential and biofilm conditions into a manually curated GEM of . We observed substantial differences in pathway response to different growth conditions and alternative pathway susceptibility to extracellular nutrient availability. For instance, we found that blockage of the reactions was vital through the lipid biosynthesis pathways in the exponential phase and the absence of microenvironmental lysine and tryptophan are essential for survival. During biofilm development, bacteria mostly had conserved lipid metabolism but altered pathway activities associated with several amino acids and pentose phosphate pathways. Furthermore, conversion of serine to pyruvate and 2,5-dioxopentanoate synthesis are also identified as potential targets for metabolic remodeling during biofilm development. Altogether, our integrative systems biology analysis revealed the interactions between the bacteria and its microenvironment and enabled the discovery of antimicrobial targets for biofilm-related diseases."	
32345739		mSystems	"Commensal Oral Rothia mucilaginosa Produces Enterobactin, a Metal-Chelating Siderophore."	"Next-generation sequencing studies of saliva and dental plaque from subjects in both healthy and diseased states have identified bacteria belonging to the  genus as ubiquitous members of the oral microbiota. To gain a deeper understanding of molecular mechanisms underlying the chemical ecology of this unexplored group, we applied a genome mining approach that targets functionally important biosynthetic gene clusters (BGCs). All 45 genomes that were mined, representing , , and , harbored a catechol-siderophore-like BGC. To explore siderophore production further, we grew the previously characterized  ATCC 25296 in liquid cultures, amended with glycerol, which led to the identification of the archetype siderophore enterobactin by using tandem liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. Normally attributed to pathogenic gut bacteria,  is the first commensal oral bacterium found to produce enterobactin. Cocultivation studies including  or purified enterobactin revealed that enterobactin reduced growth of certain strains of cariogenic  and pathogenic strains of  Commensal oral bacteria were either unaffected, reduced in growth, or induced to grow adjacent to enterobactin-producing  or the pure compound. Taken together with 's known capacity to ferment a variety of carbohydrates and amino acids, our findings of enterobactin production add an additional level of explanation to 's prevalence in the oral cavity. Enterobactin is the strongest Fe(III) binding siderophore known, and its role in oral health requires further investigation. The communication language of the human oral microbiota is vastly underexplored. However, a few studies have shown that specialized small molecules encoded by BGCs have critical roles such as in colonization resistance against pathogens and quorum sensing. Here, by using a genome mining approach in combination with compound screening of growth cultures, we identified that the commensal oral community member  harbors a catecholate-siderophore BGC, which is responsible for the biosynthesis of enterobactin. The iron-scavenging role of enterobactin is known to have positive effects on the host's iron pool and negative effects on host immune function; however, its role in oral health remains unexplored.  was previously identified as an abundant community member in cystic fibrosis, where bacterial iron cycling plays a major role in virulence development. With respect to iron's broad biological importance, iron-chelating enterobactin may explain 's colonization success in both health and disease."	
31123864		European journal of nutrition	Lactobacillus casei protects dextran sodium sulfate- or rapamycin-induced colonic inflammation in the mouse.	"Human colon inflammation is associated with changes in the diverse and abundant microorganisms in the gut. As important beneficial microbes, Lactobacillus contributes to the immune responses and intestinal integrity that may alleviate experimental colitis. However, the mechanisms underlying probiotic benefits have not been fully elucidated. Dextran sodium sulfate or rapamycin-challenged mice were used as model for colon inflammation evaluation. Histological scores of the colon, levels of colonic myeloperoxidase, serum tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-6 were assessed as inflammatory markers and the gut microbiota profiles of each mouse were studied. We found that Lactobacillus casei Zhang (LCZ) can prevent experimental colitis and rapamycin-induced inflammation in intestinal mucosa by improving histological scores, decreasing host inflammatory cytokines, modulating gut-dominated bacteria, enhancing cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) expression and downregulating the expression of p-STAT3 (phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3) or Akt/NF-κB (AKT serine/threonine kinase and nuclear factor kappa B). Our results suggest that LCZ may provide effective prevention against colitis."	
22941900		The Journal of antimicrobial chemotherapy	"TetAB46, a predicted heterodimeric ABC transporter conferring tetracycline resistance in Streptococcus australis isolated from the oral cavity."	"To identify the genes responsible for tetracycline resistance in a strain of Streptococcus australis isolated from pooled saliva from healthy volunteers in France. S. australis is a viridans Streptococcus, originally isolated from the oral cavity of children in Australia, and subsequently reported in the lungs of cystic fibrosis patients and as a cause of invasive disease in an elderly patient. Agar containing 2 mg/L tetracycline was used for the isolation of tetracycline-resistant organisms. A genomic library in Escherichia coli was used to isolate the tetracycline resistance determinant. In-frame deletions and chromosomal repair were used to confirm function. Antibiotic susceptibility was determined by agar dilution and disc diffusion assay. The tetracycline resistance determinant from S. australis FRStet12 was isolated from a genomic library in E. coli and DNA sequencing showed two open reading frames predicted to encode proteins with similarity to multidrug resistance-type ABC transporters. Both genes were required for tetracycline resistance (to both the naturally occurring and semi-synthetic tetracyclines) and they were designated tetAB(46). This is the first report of a predicted ABC transporter conferring tetracycline resistance in a member of the oral microbiota."	
31396394		NPJ biofilms and microbiomes	"{'i': 'Achromobacter xylosoxidans', '#text': 'A putative enoyl-CoA hydratase contributes to biofilm formation and the antibiotic tolerance of .'}"	"has attracted increasing attention as an emerging pathogen in patients with cystic fibrosis. Intrinsic resistance to several classes of antimicrobials and the ability to form robust biofilms in vivo contribute to the clinical manifestations of persistent  infection. Still, much of  biofilm formation remains uncharacterized due to the scarcity of existing genetic tools. Here we demonstrate a promising genetic system for use in ; generating a transposon mutant library which was then used to identify genes involved in biofilm development in vitro. We further described the effects of one of the genes found in the mutagenesis screen, encoding a putative enoyl-CoA hydratase, on biofilm structure and tolerance to antimicrobials. Through additional analysis, we find that a fatty acid signaling compound is essential to  biofilm ultrastructure and maintenance. This work describes methods for the genetic manipulation of  and demonstrated their use to improve our understanding of  pathophysiology."	
32341102		The European respiratory journal	Environmental fungal sensitisation associates with poorer clinical outcomes in COPD.	"Allergic sensitisation to fungi such as  are associated to poor clinical outcomes in asthma, bronchiectasis and cystic fibrosis; however, clinical relevance in COPD remains unclear. Patients with stable COPD (n=446) and nondiseased controls (n=51) were prospectively recruited across three countries (Singapore, Malaysia and Hong Kong) and screened against a comprehensive allergen panel including house dust mites, pollens, cockroach and fungi. For the first time, using a metagenomics approach, we assessed outdoor and indoor environmental allergen exposure in COPD. We identified key fungi in outdoor air and developed specific-IgE assays against the top culturable fungi, linking sensitisation responses to COPD outcomes. Indoor air and surface allergens were prospectively evaluated by metagenomics in the homes of 11 COPD patients and linked to clinical outcome. High frequencies of sensitisation to a broad range of allergens occur in COPD. Fungal sensitisation associates with frequent exacerbations, and unsupervised clustering reveals a ""highly sensitised fungal predominant"" subgroup demonstrating significant symptomatology, frequent exacerbations and poor lung function. Outdoor and indoor environments serve as important reservoirs of fungal allergen exposure in COPD and promote a sensitisation response to outdoor air fungi. Indoor (home) environments with high fungal allergens associate with greater COPD symptoms and poorer lung function, illustrating the importance of environmental exposures on clinical outcomes in COPD. Fungal sensitisation is prevalent in COPD and associates with frequent exacerbations representing a potential treatable trait. Outdoor and indoor (home) environments represent a key source of fungal allergen exposure, amenable to intervention, in ""sensitised"" COPD."	
36926118		Cell stress	Impact of microbiota on breast cancer hormone therapy.	"Recent observations indicate that the pathogenesis and prognosis of hormone-receptor breast cancer is not only dictated by the properties of the malignant cells but also by immune and microbial parameters. Thus, the immunosurveillance system retards the development of hormone-positive breast cancer and contributes to the therapeutic efficacy of estrogen receptor antagonists and aromatase inhibitors. Moreover, the anticancer immune response is profoundly modulated by the local and intestinal microbiota, which influences cancer cell-intrinsic signaling pathways, affects the composition and function of the immune infiltrate present in the tumor microenvironment and modulates the metabolism of estrogens. Indeed, specific bacteria in the gut produce enzymes that affect the enterohepatic cycle of estrogen metabolites, convert estrogens into androgens or generate estrogen-like molecules. The knowledge of these circuitries is in its infancy, calling for further in-depth analyses."	
35642631		The Journal of clinical investigation	Boosting the immunotherapy response by nutritional interventions.		
33712560		Cell death discovery	Gut-Ex-Vivo system as a model to study gluten response in celiac disease.	"Celiac disease (CD) is a complex immune-mediated chronic disease characterized by a consistent inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract induced by gluten intake in genetically predisposed individuals. Although initiated by the interaction between digestion-derived gliadin, a gluten component, peptides, and the intestinal epithelium, the disorder is highly complex and involving other components of the intestine, such as the immune system. Therefore, conventional model systems, mainly based on two- or three-dimension cell cultures and co-cultures, cannot fully recapitulate such a complex disease. The development of mouse models has facilitated the study of different interacting cell types involved in the disorder, together with the impact of environmental factors. However, such in vivo models are often expensive and time consuming. Here we propose an organ ex vivo culture (gut-ex-vivo system) based on small intestines from gluten-sensitive mice cultivated in a dynamic condition, able to fully recapitulate the biochemical and morphological features of the mouse model exposed to gliadin (4 weeks), in 16 h. Indeed, upon gliadin exposure, we observed: i) a down-regulation of cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator (CFTR) and an up-regulation of transglutaminase 2 (TG2) at both mRNA and protein levels; ii) increased intestinal permeability associated with deregulated tight junction protein expression; iii) induction and production of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin (IL)-15, IL-17 and interferon gamma (IFNγ); and iv) consistent alteration of intestinal epithelium/villi morphology. Altogether, these data indicate that the proposed model can be efficiently used to study the pathogenesis of CD, test new or repurposed molecules to accelerate the search for new treatments, and to study the impact of the microbiome and derived metabolites, in a time- and cost- effective manner."	
38850343		Inflammation research : official journal of the European Histamine Research Society ... [et al.]	Saccharomyces cerevisiae β-glucan improves the response of trained macrophages to severe P. aeruginosa infections.	"OBJECTIVE P. AERUGINOSA: (PA), the major pathogen of lung cystic fibrosis (CF), polarizes macrophages into hyperinflammatory tissue damaging phenotype. The main aim of this study was to verify whether training of macrophages with β-glucan might improve their response to P. aeruginosa infections. To perform this task C57BL/6 mice sensitive to infections with P. aeruginosa were used. Peritoneal macrophages were trained with Saccharomyces cerevisiae β-glucan and exposed to PA57, the strong biofilm-forming bacterial strain isolated from the patient with severe lung CF. The release of cytokines and the expression of macrophage phenotypic markers were measured. A quantitative proteomic approach was used for the characterization of proteome-wide changes in macrophages. The effect of in vivo β-glucan-trained macrophages in the air pouch model of PA57 infection was investigated. In all experiments the effect of trained and naïve macrophages was compared. Trained macrophages acquired a specific phenotype with mixed pro-inflammatory and pro-resolution characteristics, however they retained anti-bacterial properties. Most importantly, transfer of trained macrophages into infected air pouches markedly ameliorated the course of infection. PA57 bacterial growth and formation of biofilm were significantly suppressed. The level of serum amyloid A (SAA), a systemic inflammation biomarker, was reduced. Training of murine macrophages with S. cerevisiae β-glucan improved macrophage defense properties along with inhibition of secretion of some detrimental inflammatory agents. We suggest that training of macrophages with such β-glucans might be a new therapeutic strategy in P. aeruginosa biofilm infections, including CF, to promote eradication of pathogens and resolution of inflammation."	
32709907		NPJ biofilms and microbiomes	The evolutionary trajectories of P. aeruginosa in biofilm and planktonic growth modes exposed to ciprofloxacin: beyond selection of antibiotic resistance.	"Ciprofloxacin (CIP) is used to treat Pseudomonas aeruginosa biofilm infections. We showed that the pathways of CIP-resistance development during exposure of biofilms and planktonic P. aeruginosa populations to subinhibitory levels of CIP depend on the mode of growth. In the present study, we analyzed CIP-resistant isolates obtained from previous evolution experiments, and we report a variety of evolved phenotypic and genotypic changes that occurred in parallel with the evolution of CIP-resistance. Cross-resistance to beta-lactam antibiotics was associated with mutations in genes involved in cell-wall recycling (ftsZ, murG); and could also be explained by mutations in the TCA cycle (sdhA) genes and in genes involved in arginine catabolism. We found that CIP-exposed isolates that lacked mutations in quorum-sensing genes and acquired mutations in type IV pili genes maintained swarming motility and lost twitching motility, respectively. Evolved CIP-resistant isolates showed high fitness cost in planktonic competition experiments, yet persisted in the biofilm under control conditions, compared with ancestor isolates and had an advantage when exposed to CIP. Their persistence in biofilm competition experiments in spite of their fitness cost in planktonic growth could be explained by their prolonged lag-phase. Interestingly, the set of mutated genes that we identified in these in vitro-evolved CIP-resistant colonies, overlap with a large number of patho-adaptive genes previously reported in P. aeruginosa isolates from cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. This suggests that the antibiotic stress is contributing to the bacterial evolution in vivo, and that adaptive laboratory evolution can be used to predict the in vivo evolutionary trajectories."	
29977590		NPJ biofilms and microbiomes	"{'i': 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa', '#text': 'Targeted disruption of the extracellular polymeric network of  biofilms by alginate oligosaccharides.'}"	"Acquisition of a mucoid phenotype by  sp. in the lungs of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients, with subsequent over-production of extracellular polymeric substance (EPS), plays an important role in mediating the persistence of multi-drug resistant (MDR) infections. The ability of a low molecular weight (Mn = 3200 g mol) alginate oligomer (OligoG CF-5/20) to modify biofilm structure of mucoid  (NH57388A) was studied in vitro using scanning electron microscopy (SEM), confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) with Texas Red (TxRd®)-labelled OligoG and EPS histochemical staining. Structural changes in treated biofilms were quantified using COMSTAT image-analysis software of CLSM z-stack images, and nanoparticle diffusion. Interactions between the oligomers, Ca and DNA were studied using molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) and isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC). Imaging demonstrated that OligoG treatment (≥0.5%) inhibited biofilm formation, revealing a significant reduction in both biomass and biofilm height ( < 0.05). TxRd®-labelled oligomers readily diffused into established (24 h) biofilms. OligoG treatment (≥2%) induced alterations in the EPS of established biofilms; significantly reducing the structural quantities of EPS polysaccharides, and extracellular (e)DNA ( < 0.05) with a corresponding increase in nanoparticle diffusion ( < 0.05) and antibiotic efficacy against established biofilms. ITC demonstrated an absence of rapid complex formation between DNA and OligoG and confirmed the interactions of OligoG with Ca evident in FTIR and MD modelling. The ability of OligoG to diffuse into biofilms, potentiate antibiotic activity, disrupt DNA-Ca-DNA bridges and biofilm EPS matrix highlights its potential for the treatment of biofilm-related infections."	
38051055		Microbiology spectrum	"{'i': 'A. actinomycetemcomitans', '#text': 'Identification of a glutathione transporter in .'}"	"Microbes produce a large array of extracellular molecules, which serve as signals and cues to promote polymicrobial interactions and alter the function of microbial communities. This has been particularly well studied in the human oral microbiome, where key metabolites have been shown to impact both health and disease. Here, we used an untargeted mass spectrometry approach to comprehensively assess the extracellular metabolome of the pathogen  and the commensal  during mono- and co-culture. We generated and made publicly available a metabolomic data set that includes hundreds of potential metabolites and leveraged this data set to identify an operon important for glutathione secretion in ."	
38065959		Nature communications	Airway environment drives the selection of quorum sensing mutants and promote Staphylococcus aureus chronic lifestyle.	"Staphylococcus aureus is a predominant cause of chronic lung infections. While the airway environment is rich in highly sialylated mucins, the interaction of S. aureus with sialic acid is poorly characterized. Using S. aureus USA300 as well as clinical isolates, we demonstrate that quorum-sensing dysfunction, a hallmark of S. aureus adaptation, correlates with a greater ability to consume free sialic acid, providing a growth advantage in an air-liquid interface model and in vivo. Furthermore, RNA-seq experiment reveals that free sialic acid triggers transcriptional reprogramming promoting S. aureus chronic lifestyle. To support the clinical relevance of our results, we show the co-occurrence of S. aureus, sialidase-producing microbiota and free sialic acid in the airway of patients with cystic fibrosis. Our findings suggest a dual role for sialic acid in S. aureus airway infection, triggering virulence reprogramming and driving S. aureus adaptive strategies through the selection of quorum-sensing dysfunctional strains."	
36776523		Oncoimmunology	Arsenic trioxide as an inducer of immunogenic cell death.		
38800095		Cell stress	Pathogenic hyperactivation of mTORC1 by cytoplasmic EP300 in Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome.	"In a recent issue in , Sung Min Son  unveil a novel layer in the regulation of the mTORC1/autophagy axis by EP300 which can undergo nucleocytoplasmic shuttling in response to alterations in nutrient availability. The study highlights that, in Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome, overabundant cytoplasmic EP300 results in mTORC1 hyperactivation and impaired autophagy, potentially contributing to premature and accelerated aging."	
36776522		Oncoimmunology	Tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes for melanoma immunotherapy.		
29540404		BMJ open	"{'i': 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa', '#text': 'isolation in patients with non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis: a retrospective study.'}"	"occupies an important niche in the pathogenic microbiome of bronchiectasis. The objective of this study is to evaluate the clinical characteristics and prognostic value of  in Chinese adult patients with bronchiectasis. This retrospective and follow-up study enrolled 1188 patients diagnosed with bronchiectasis at Shanghai Pulmonary Hospital between January 2011 and December 2012. The patients' clinical data including anthropometry, clinical symptoms, serum biomarkers, radiographic manifestations and lung function indices were reviewed. The median follow-up duration (IQR) was 44 (40-54) months, during which 289 patients were lost to follow-up. Data from 899 patients were collected and analysed for the outcomes of mortality, annual exacerbation frequency and health-related quality of life. was isolated from 232 patients, alongside other pathogens such as  (n=75) and  (n=72). There were 74 deaths (12% of patients with , 7.3% of those without) over the course of the follow-up. The isolation of  was a risk factor for all-cause mortality (HR, 3.07; 95% CI 1.32 to 7.15) and was associated with high rates of exacerbations (ie, ≥3 exacerbations per year of follow-up) (HR, 2.40; 95% CI 1.20 to 4.79). Patients with  also had worse scores on the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (anxiety, p=0.005; depression, p<0.001), the Leicester Cough Questionnaire (p=0.033) and the modified Medical Research Council scale (p=0.001) compared with those without . Isolation of  in patients with bronchiectasis is a significant prognostic indicator and should be a major factor in the clinical management of the disease."	
33716293		Journal of pediatric gastroenterology and nutrition	The Use of Fecal Calprotectin Testing in Paediatric Disorders: A Position Paper of the European Society for Paediatric Gastroenterology and Nutrition Gastroenterology Committee.	"The aim of the study was to review the evidence regarding the clinical use and value of fecal calprotectin (FC) measurements in different gastrointestinal disorders in children. A literature search was conducted in the PubMed, MEDLINE, EMBASE, and Cochrane databases until October 31, 2019. Subtopics were identified and each assigned to individual authors. A total of 28 recommendations were voted on using the nominal voting technique. Recommendations are given related to sampling, measurement methods, and results interpretation. The 14 authors anonymously voted on each recommendation using a 9-point scale (1 strongly disagree to 9 fully agree). Consensus was considered achieved if at least 75% of the authors voted 6, 7, 8, or 9. Consensus was reached for all recommendations. Limitations for the use of FC in clinical practice include variability in extraction methodology, performance of test kits as well as the need to establish local reference ranges because of the influence of individual factors, such as age, diet, microbiota, and drugs. The main utility of FC measurement at present is in the diagnosis and monitoring of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) as well as to differentiate it from functional gastrointestinal disorders (FAPDs). FC, however, has neither utility in the diagnosis of infantile colic nor to differentiate between functional and organic constipation. A rise in FC concentration, may alert to the risk of developing necrotizing enterocolitis and help identifying gastrointestinal involvement in children with Henoch-Schönlein purpura. FC measurement is of little value in Cow's Milk Protein Allergy, coeliac disease (CD), and cystic fibrosis. FC does neither help to distinguish bacterial from viral acute gastroenteritis (AGE), nor to diagnose Helicobacter Pylori infection, small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO), acute appendicitis (AA), or intestinal polyps."	
35404119		mBio	"{'i': 'Malassezia furfur', '#text': 'Multiple Hybridization Events Punctuate the Evolutionary Trajectory of .'}"	"species are important fungal skin commensals and are part of the normal microbiota of humans and other animals. However, under certain circumstances these fungi can also display a pathogenic behavior. For example,  is a common commensal of human skin and yet is often responsible for skin disorders but also systemic infections. Comparative genomics analysis of  revealed that some isolates have a hybrid origin, similar to several other recently described hybrid fungal pathogens. Because hybrid species exhibit genomic plasticity that can impact phenotypes, we sought to elucidate the genomic evolution and phenotypic characteristics of  hybrids in comparison to their parental lineages. To this end, we performed a comparative genomics analysis between hybrid strains and their presumptive parental lineages and assessed phenotypic characteristics. Our results provide evidence that at least two distinct hybridization events occurred between the same parental lineages and that the parental strains may have originally been hybrids themselves. Analysis of the mating-type locus reveals that  has a pseudobipolar mating system and provides evidence that after sexual liaisons of mating compatible cells, hybridization involved cell-cell fusion leading to a diploid/aneuploid state. This study provides new insights into the evolutionary trajectory of  and contributes with valuable genomic resources for future pathogenicity studies.  is a common commensal member of human/animal microbiota that is also associated with several pathogenic states. Recent studies report involvement of  species in Crohn's disease, a type of inflammatory bowel disease, pancreatic cancer progression, and exacerbation of cystic fibrosis. A recent genomics analysis of .  revealed the existence of hybrid isolates and identified their putative parental lineages. In this study, we explored the genomic and phenotypic features of these hybrids in comparison to their putative parental lineages. Our results revealed the existence of a pseudobipolar mating system in this species and showed evidence for the occurrence of multiple hybridization events in the evolutionary trajectory of . These findings significantly advance our understanding of the evolution of this commensal microbe and are relevant for future studies exploring the role of hybridization in the adaptation to new niches or environments, including the emergence of pathogenicity."	
31149345		NPJ biofilms and microbiomes	"{'i': 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa', '#text': 'Extracellular DNA release, quorum sensing, and PrrF1/F2 small RNAs are key players in  tobramycin-enhanced biofilm formation.'}"	"Biofilms are structured microbial communities that are the leading cause of numerous chronic infections which are difficult to eradicate. Within the lungs of individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF),  causes persistent biofilm infection that is commonly treated with aminoglycoside antibiotics such as tobramycin. However, sublethal concentrations of this aminoglycoside were previously shown to increase biofilm formation by , but the underlying adaptive mechanisms still remain elusive. Herein, we combined confocal laser scanning microscope analyses, proteomics profiling, gene expression assays and phenotypic studies to unravel  potential adaptive mechanisms in response to tobramycin exposure during biofilm growth. Under this condition, we show that the modified biofilm architecture is related at least in part to increased extracellular DNA (eDNA) release, most likely as a result of biofilm cell death. Furthermore, the activity of quorum sensing (QS) systems was increased, leading to higher production of QS signaling molecules. We also demonstrate upon tobramycin exposure an increase in expression of the PrrF small regulatory RNAs, as well as expression of iron uptake systems. Remarkably, biofilm biovolumes and eDNA relative abundances in  and  mutant strains decrease in the presence of tobramycin. Overall, our findings offer experimental evidences for a potential adaptive mechanism linking PrrF sRNAs, QS signaling, biofilm cell death, eDNA release, and tobramycin-enhanced biofilm formation in . These specific adaptive mechanisms should be considered to improve treatment strategies against  biofilm establishment in CF patients' lungs."	
35357493		Nucleic acids research	Machine learning from Pseudomonas aeruginosa transcriptomes identifies independently modulated sets of genes associated with known transcriptional regulators.	"The transcriptional regulatory network (TRN) of Pseudomonas aeruginosa coordinates cellular processes in response to stimuli. We used 364 transcriptomes (281 publicly available + 83 in-house generated) to reconstruct the TRN of P. aeruginosa using independent component analysis. We identified 104 independently modulated sets of genes (iModulons) among which 81 reflect the effects of known transcriptional regulators. We identified iModulons that (i) play an important role in defining the genomic boundaries of biosynthetic gene clusters (BGCs), (ii) show increased expression of the BGCs and associated secretion systems in nutrient conditions that are important in cystic fibrosis, (iii) show the presence of a novel ribosomally synthesized and post-translationally modified peptide (RiPP) BGC which might have a role in P. aeruginosa virulence, (iv) exhibit interplay of amino acid metabolism regulation and central metabolism across different carbon sources and (v) clustered according to their activity changes to define iron and sulfur stimulons. Finally, we compared the identified iModulons of P. aeruginosa with those previously described in Escherichia coli to observe conserved regulons across two Gram-negative species. This comprehensive TRN framework encompasses the majority of the transcriptional regulatory machinery in P. aeruginosa, and thus should prove foundational for future research into its physiological functions."	
37554311		Oncoimmunology	Histamine antagonists promote cancer immunosurveillance.	"Recently, a cellular mini-immune system comprising infinitely expandable dendritic cells and T cells led to the discovery that histamine receptor H1 antagonists act on T cells to stimulate their proliferation and polarization toward a Th1/Tc1 phenotype and to increase their anticancer activity in the context of immunochemotherapy."	
32780452		Angewandte Chemie (International ed. in English)	Discovery and Biosynthesis of Bolagladins: Unusual Lipodepsipeptides from Burkholderia gladioli Clinical Isolates*.	"Two Burkholderia gladioli strains isolated from the lungs of cystic fibrosis patients were found to produce unusual lipodepsipeptides containing a unique citrate-derived fatty acid and a rare dehydro-β-alanine residue. The gene cluster responsible for their biosynthesis was identified by bioinformatics and insertional mutagenesis. In-frame deletions and enzyme activity assays were used to investigate the functions of several proteins encoded by the biosynthetic gene cluster, which was found in the genomes of about 45 % of B. gladioli isolates, suggesting that its metabolic products play an important role in the growth and/or survival of the species. The Chrome Azurol S assay indicated that these metabolites bind ferric iron, which suppresses their production when added to the growth medium. Moreover, a gene encoding a TonB-dependent ferric-siderophore receptor is adjacent to the biosynthetic genes, suggesting that these metabolites may function as siderophores in B. gladioli."	
33318011		Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy	Burkholderia ubonensis High-Level Tetracycline Resistance Is Due to Efflux Pump Synergy Involving a Novel TetA(64) Resistance Determinant.	", a nonpathogenic soil bacterium belonging to the  complex (Bcc), is highly resistant to some clinically significant antibiotics. The concern is that  may serve as a resistance reservoir for Bcc or  complex (Bpc) organisms that are opportunistic human pathogens. Using a  strain highly resistant to tetracycline (MIC, ≥256 µg/ml), we identified and characterized (64) that encodes a novel tetracycline-specific efflux pump of the major facilitator superfamily. TetA(64) and associated TetR(64) regulator expression are induced by tetracyclines. Although TetA(64) is the primary tetracycline and doxycycline resistance determinant, maximum tetracycline and doxycycline resistance requires synergy between TetA(64) and the nonspecific AmrAB-OprA resistance nodulation cell division efflux pump. TetA(64) does not efflux minocycline, tigecycline, and eravacycline. Comprehensive screening of genome sequences showed that TetA(64) is unequally distributed in the Bcc and absent from the Bpc. It is present in some major cystic fibrosis pathogens, like , but absent from others like  The (64)-(64) genes are located in a region of chromosome 1 that is highly conserved in  sp. Because there is no evidence for transposition, the (64)-(64) genes may have been acquired by homologous recombination after horizontal gene transfer. Although  species contain a resident multicomponent efflux pump that allows them to respond to tetracyclines up to a certain concentration, the acquisition of the single-component TetA(64) by some species likely provides the synergy that these bacteria need to defend against high tetracycline concentrations in niche environments."	
37546695		Oncoimmunology	Mammary carcinoma: toward a realistic mouse model of incurable cancers.	"As long as breast cancer (BC) stays under immunosurveillance, it can be controlled by treatments eliciting anticancer immune responses. However, once BC escapes immunosurveillance, it becomes therapeutically uncontrollable. A paper in the  describes a new hormone receptor-positive BC cell line generating incurable tumors in C57BL/6 mice."	
36387057		Oncoimmunology	Spermidine rejuvenates T lymphocytes and restores anticancer immunosurveillance in aged mice.	Writing in  Habsi . show that spermidine boosts the efficacy of monoclonal antibodies targeting PD-L1 in aged tumor-bearing mice by enhancing fatty acid oxidation in CD8 T cells. These results open new therapeutic avenues to improve the effectiveness of anticancer immunotherapies in aged patients.	
26976607		Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	SARS-like WIV1-CoV poised for human emergence.	"Outbreaks from zoonotic sources represent a threat to both human disease as well as the global economy. Despite a wealth of metagenomics studies, methods to leverage these datasets to identify future threats are underdeveloped. In this study, we describe an approach that combines existing metagenomics data with reverse genetics to engineer reagents to evaluate emergence and pathogenic potential of circulating zoonotic viruses. Focusing on the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)-like viruses, the results indicate that the WIV1-coronavirus (CoV) cluster has the ability to directly infect and may undergo limited transmission in human populations. However, in vivo attenuation suggests additional adaptation is required for epidemic disease. Importantly, available SARS monoclonal antibodies offered success in limiting viral infection absent from available vaccine approaches. Together, the data highlight the utility of a platform to identify and prioritize prepandemic strains harbored in animal reservoirs and document the threat posed by WIV1-CoV for emergence in human populations."	
34079922		Allergologie select	Precision medicine reaching out to the patients in allergology - a German-Japanese workshop report.	"An expert workshop in collaboration of the German Society of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (DGAKI) and the Japanese Society of Allergy (JSA) provided a platform for key opinion leaders of both countries aimed to join expertise and to highlight current developments and achievements in allergy research. Key domains of the meeting included the following seven main sections and related subchapters: 1) basic immunology, 2) bronchial asthma, 3) prevention of allergic diseases, 4) food allergy and anaphylaxis, 5) atopic dermatitis, 6) venom allergy, and 7) upper airway diseases. This report provides a summary of panel discussions of all seven domains and highlights unmet needs and project possibilities of enhanced collaborations of scientific projects."	
27259950		Respiratory research	Exposure to common respiratory bacteria alters the airway epithelial response to subsequent viral infection.	"Colonization of the airways with potential pathogenic bacteria is observed in a number of chronic respiratory diseases, such as COPD or cystic fibrosis. Infections with respiratory viruses are known triggers of exacerbations of these diseases. We here investigated if pre-exposure to bacteria alters the response of lung epithelial cells to subsequent viral infection. Bronchial epithelial cells (BEAS-2B cells and primary bronchial epithelial cells) were exposed to heat-inactivated Haemophilus influenzae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa or Streptococcus pneumoniae and subsequently infected with respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), type 2 human adenovirus or influenza B. Levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines, viral replication and expression of pattern recognition receptors were determined in culture supernatants and/or cell lysates. Exposure of BEAS-2B cells to H. influenzae before and during RSV-infection synergistically increased the release of IL-6 (increase above calculated additive effect at 72 h: 56 % ± 3 %, mean ± SEM) and IL-8 (53 % ± 12 %). This effect was sustained even when bacteria were washed away before viral infection and was neither associated with enhanced viral replication, nor linked to increased expression of key pattern recognition receptors. P. aeruginosa enhanced the release of inflammatory cytokines to a similar extent, yet only if bacteria were also present during viral infection. S. pneumoniae did not enhance RSV-induced cytokine release. Surprisingly, adenovirus infection significantly reduced IL-6 release in cells exposed to either of the three tested bacterial strains by on average more than 50 %. Infection with influenza B on the other hand did not affect cytokine production in BEAS-2B cells exposed to the different bacterial strains. Pre-exposure of epithelial cells to bacteria alters the response to subsequent viral infection depending on the types of pathogen involved. These findings highlight the complexity of microbiome interactions in the airways, possibly contributing to the susceptibility to exacerbations and the natural course of airway diseases."	
30592451		Annals of the American Thoracic Society	"High-Throughput Sequencing in Respiratory, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine Research. An Official American Thoracic Society Workshop Report."	"High-throughput, ""next-generation"" sequencing methods are now being broadly applied across all fields of biomedical research, including respiratory disease, critical care, and sleep medicine. Although there are numerous review articles and best practice guidelines related to sequencing methods and data analysis, there are fewer resources summarizing issues related to study design and interpretation, especially as applied to common, complex, nonmalignant diseases. To address these gaps, a single-day workshop was held at the American Thoracic Society meeting in May 2017, led by the American Thoracic Society Section on Genetics and Genomics. The aim of this workshop was to review the design, analysis, interpretation, and functional follow-up of high-throughput sequencing studies in respiratory, critical care, and sleep medicine research. This workshop brought together experts in multiple fields, including genetic epidemiology, biobanking, bioinformatics, and research ethics, along with physician-scientists with expertise in a range of relevant diseases. The workshop focused on application of DNA and RNA sequencing research in common chronic diseases and did not cover sequencing studies in lung cancer, monogenic diseases (e.g., cystic fibrosis), or microbiome sequencing. Participants reviewed and discussed study design, data analysis and presentation, interpretation, functional follow-up, and reporting of results. This report summarizes the main conclusions of the workshop, specifically addressing the application of these methods in respiratory, critical care, and sleep medicine research. This workshop report may serve as a resource for our research community as well as for journal editors and reviewers of sequencing-based manuscript submissions in our research field."	
36198345		The Journal of hospital infection	Portable HEPA filtration successfully augments natural-ventilation-mediated airborne particle clearance in a legacy design hospital ward.	"As the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 pandemic has proceeded, ventilation has been recognized increasingly as an important tool in infection control. Many hospitals in Ireland and the UK do not have mechanical ventilation and depend on natural ventilation. The effectiveness of natural ventilation varies with atmospheric conditions and building design. In a challenge test of a legacy design ward, this study showed that portable air filtration significantly increased the clearance of pollutant aerosols of respirable size compared with natural ventilation, and reduced spatial variation in particle persistence. A combination of natural ventilation and portable air filtration is significantly more effective for particle clearance than either intervention alone."	
37806931		Trends in immunology	Dietary fibers affecting gastrointestinal immunity.	"Dietary fibers, including chitin, have a major impact on gastrointestinal (GI) physiology and immunity. Two recent articles, by Parrish et al. and Kim et al., credit depletion of dietary fibers or supplementation with chitin, with negative and positive effects, respectively, on the immune system of the murine digestive tract. This has relevant implications for food allergies and systemic metabolism."	
33246813		Journal of hazardous materials	"Effects of chlorothalonil, prochloraz and the combination on intestinal barrier function and glucolipid metabolism in the liver of mice."	"Chlorothalonil (CHL) and procymidone (PRO) are fungicides that exhibit low toxicity and are widely used in many countries. And both fungicides are frequently detected in the food chain. However, the health risk posed by these fungicides is still unclear. Here, 8-week-old male C57BL/6 mice were orally treated with CHL (10, 50 mg/kg/day), PRO (20, 100 mg/kg/day) and CHL+PRO (5+10, 25+50 mg/kg/day) by dietary supplementation for 10 weeks. Hepatic pathological analysis showed that exposure to CHL, PRO and CHL+PRO could cause liver injury. The glucose, triglyceride (TG) levels and the related gene expression to glucolipid metabolism changed significantly. The significantly reduced acylcarnitine levels demonstrated that CHL, PRO and CHL+PRO exposure inhibited fatty acids (FAs) β-oxidation. In addition, CHL and PRO altered the structure of the gut microbiota and destroyed the integrity of the intestinal barrier function. In particular, AF12, Odoribacter, Prevotella and Lactobacillus were highly correlated with carnitine. The results showed that CHL, PRO and CHL+PRO exposure might inhibit FAs β-oxidation by decreasing cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR)-mediated ion transport, indicating that these fungicides disturbed intestinal barrier function associated with glucolipid metabolism disorder. Here, the data also indicated that there was an additive effect between CHL and PRO in mice."	
37562590		The Journal of hospital infection	"Comparison of multiple definitions for ventilator-associated pneumonia in patients requiring mechanical ventilation for non-pulmonary conditions: preliminary data from PULMIVAP, an Italian multi-centre cohort study."	"To compare intensivist-diagnosed ventilator-associated pneumonia (iVAP) with four established definitions, assessing their agreement in detecting new episodes. A multi-centric prospective study on pulmonary microbiota was carried out in patients requiring mechanical ventilation (MV). Data collected were used to compare hypothetical VAP onset according to iVAP with the study consensus criteria, the European Centre for Disease Control and Prevention definition, and two versions of the latter adjusted for leukocyte count and fever. In our cohort of 186 adult patients, iVAPs were 36.6% (68/186, 95% confidence interval 30.0-44.0%), with an incidence rate of 4.64/100 patient-MV-days, and median MV-day at diagnosis of 6. Forty-seven percent of patients (87/186) were identified as VAP by at least one criterion, with a median MV-day at diagnosis of 5. Agreement between intensivist judgement (iVAP/no-iVAP) and the criteria was highest for the study consensus criteria (50/87, 57.4%), but still one-third of iVAP were not identified and 9% of patients were identified as VAP contrary to intensivist diagnosis. VAP proportion differed between criteria (25.2-30.1%). Caution is needed when evaluating studies describing VAP incidence. Pre-agreed criteria and definitions that capture VAP's evolving nature provide greater consistency, but new clinically driven definitions are needed to align surveillance and diagnostic criteria with clinical practice."	
38504848		Oncoimmunology	Trial watch: local anesthetics in cancer therapy.	"Preclinical evidence indicates potent antitumor properties of local anesthetics. Numerous underlying mechanisms explaining such anticancer effects have been identified, suggesting direct cytotoxic as well as indirect immunemediated effects that together reduce the proliferative, invasive and migratory potential of malignant cells. Although some retrospective and correlative studies support these findings, prospective randomized controlled trials have not yet fully confirmed the antineoplastic activity of local anesthetics, likely due to the intricate methodology required for mitigating confounding factors. This trial watch aims at compiling all published preclinical and clinical research, along with completed and ongoing trials, that explore the potential antitumor effects of local anesthetics."	
38476764		Cell stress	The missing hallmark of health: psychosocial adaptation.	"The eight biological hallmarks of health that we initially postulated (. 2021 Jan 7;184(1):33-63) include features of spatial compartmentalization (integrity of barriers, containment of local perturbations), maintenance of homeostasis over time (recycling & turnover, integration of circuitries, rhythmic oscillations) and an array of adequate responses to stress (homeostatic resilience, hormetic regulation, repair & regeneration). These hallmarks affect all eight somatic strata of the human body (molecules, organelles, cells, supracellular units, organs, organ systems, systemic circuitries and meta-organism). Here we postulate that mental and socioeconomic factors must be added to this 8×8 matrix as an additional hallmark of health (""psychosocial adaptation"") and as an additional stratum (""psychosocial interactions""), hence building a 9×9 matrix. Potentially, perturbation of each of the somatic hallmarks and strata affects psychosocial factors and vice versa. Finally, we discuss the (patho)physiological bases of these interactions and their implications for mental health improvement."	
27933544		"Methods in molecular biology (Clifton, N.J.)"	Dissection of Host Susceptibility to Bacterial Infections and Its Toxins.	"Infection is one of the leading causes of human mortality and morbidity. Exposure to microbial agents is obviously required. However, also non-microbial environmental and host factors play a key role in the onset, development and outcome of infectious disease, resulting in large of clinical variability between individuals in a population infected with the same microbe. Controlled and standardized investigations of the genetics of susceptibility to infectious disease are almost impossible to perform in humans whereas mouse models allow application of powerful genomic techniques to identify and validate causative genes underlying human diseases with complex etiologies. Most of current animal models used in complex traits diseases genetic mapping have limited genetic diversity. This limitation impedes the ability to create incorporated network using genetic interactions, epigenetics, environmental factors, microbiota, and other phenotypes. A novel mouse genetic reference population for high-resolution mapping and subsequently identifying genes underlying the QTL, namely the Collaborative Cross (CC) mouse genetic reference population (GRP) was recently developed. In this chapter, we discuss a variety of approaches using CC mice for mapping genes underlying quantitative trait loci (QTL) to dissect the host response to polygenic traits, including infectious disease caused by bacterial agents and its toxins."	
36875550		Oncoimmunology	Trial watch: Toll-like receptor ligands in cancer therapy.	"Accumulating evidence indicates that Toll-like receptor (TLR) agonists proficiently (re)instore cancer immunosurveillance as immunological adjuvants. So far, three TLR agonists have been approved by regulatory agencies for use in oncological applications. Additionally, these immunotherapeutics have been extensively investigated over the past few years. Multiple clinical trials are currently evaluating the combination of TLR agonists with chemotherapy, radiotherapy, or different immunotherapies. Moreover, antibodies targeting tumor-enriched surface proteins that have been conjugated to TLR agonists are being developed to stimulate anticancer immune responses specifically within the tumor microenvironment. Solid preclinical and translational results support the favorable immune-activating effects of TLR agonists. Here, we summarize recent preclinical and clinical advances in the development of TLR agonists for anticancer immunotherapy."	
38837404		mSphere	"{'i': 'Clostridioides difficile', '#text': '-mucus interactions encompass shifts in gene expression, metabolism, and biofilm formation.'}"	"In a healthy colon, the stratified mucus layer serves as a crucial innate immune barrier to protect the epithelium from microbes. Mucins are complex glycoproteins that serve as a nutrient source for resident microflora and can be exploited by pathogens. We aimed to understand how the intestinal pathogen, , independently uses or manipulates mucus to its benefit, without contributions from members of the microbiota. Using a 2-D primary human intestinal epithelial cell model to generate physiologic mucus, we assessed mucus interactions through growth assays, RNA-Seq, biophysical characterization of mucus, and contextualized metabolic modeling. We found that host-derived mucus promotes  growth both  and in an infection model. RNA-Seq revealed significant upregulation of genes related to central metabolism in response to mucus, including genes involved in sugar uptake, the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway, and the glycine cleavage system. In addition, we identified differential expression of genes related to sensing and transcriptional control. Analysis of mutants with deletions in highly upregulated genes reflected the complexity of -mucus interactions, with potential interplay between sensing and growth. Mucus also stimulated biofilm formation , which may in turn alter the viscoelastic properties of mucus. Context-specific metabolic modeling confirmed differential metabolism and the predicted importance of enzymes related to serine and glycine catabolism with mucus. Subsequent growth experiments supported these findings, indicating mucus is an important source of serine. Our results better define responses of  to human gastrointestinal mucus and highlight flexibility in metabolism that may influence pathogenesis. results in upward of 250,000 infections and 12,000 deaths annually in the United States. Community-acquired infections continue to rise, and recurrent disease is common, emphasizing a vital need to understand  pathogenesis.  undoubtedly interacts with colonic mucus, but the extent to which the pathogen can independently respond to and take advantage of this niche has not been explored extensively. Moreover, the metabolic complexity of  remains poorly understood but likely impacts its capacity to grow and persist in the host. Here, we demonstrate that  uses native colonic mucus for growth, indicating  possesses mechanisms to exploit the mucosal niche. Furthermore, mucus induces metabolic shifts and biofilm formation in , which has potential ramifications for intestinal colonization. Overall, our work is crucial to better understand the dynamics of -mucus interactions in the context of the human gut."	
38126035		Oncoimmunology	Immunogenic chemotherapy sensitizes RAS-mutated colorectal cancers to immune checkpoint inhibitors.	"Recent clinical trials have compared the use of different chemotherapeutic regimens as ""immune induction therapies"" to sensitize cancers to immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI). Cytotoxic drugs reputed to be inducers of immunogenic cell death (ICD) appeared to be particularly efficient for this purpose. A trial published in Nature Medicine by Thibaudin et al. reveals the capacity of oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy to sensitize RAS-mutant unresectable metastatic colorectal cancer to ICIs blocking CTLA-4 and PD-L1."	
37860277		Oncoimmunology	A mitochondrial checkpoint to adaptive anticancer immunity.	"BCL2 robustly preserves mitochondrial integrity, hence inhibiting innate immune signaling and apoptotic cell death in several cell types. Here, we comment on our recent data demonstrating that BCL2 also limits the ability of dendritic cells to elicit adaptive immune responses, lending support to a universal immunosuppressive function for the mitochondrial immune checkpoint."	
37013919		"Hepatology (Baltimore, Md.)"	Ferroptosis in hepatocellular carcinoma: from bench to bedside.	"The most widespread type of liver cancer, HCC, is associated with disabled cellular death pathways. Despite therapeutic advancements, resistance to current systemic treatments (including sorafenib) compromises the prognosis of patients with HCC, driving the search for agents that might target novel cell death pathways. Ferroptosis, a form of iron-mediated nonapoptotic cell death, has gained considerable attention as a potential target for cancer therapy, especially in HCC. The role of ferroptosis in HCC is complex and diverse. On one hand, ferroptosis can contribute to the progression of HCC through its involvement in both acute and chronic liver conditions. In contrast, having ferroptosis affect HCC cells might be desirable. This review examines the role of ferroptosis in HCC from cellular, animal, and human perspectives while examining its mechanisms, regulation, biomarkers, and clinical implications."	
35002989		Frontiers in microbiology	Bacterial Signatures of Paediatric Respiratory Disease: An Individual Participant Data Meta-Analysis.	"The airway microbiota has been linked to specific paediatric respiratory diseases, but studies are often small. It remains unclear whether particular bacteria are associated with a given disease, or if a more general, non-specific microbiota association with disease exists, as suggested for the gut. We investigated overarching patterns of bacterial association with acute and chronic paediatric respiratory disease in an individual participant data (IPD) meta-analysis of 16S rRNA gene sequences from published respiratory microbiota studies.  We obtained raw microbiota data from public repositories or  communication with corresponding authors. Cross-sectional analyses of the paediatric (<18 years) microbiota in acute and chronic respiratory conditions, with >10 case subjects were included. Sequence data were processed using a uniform bioinformatics pipeline, removing a potentially substantial source of variation. Microbiota differences across diagnoses were assessed using alpha- and beta-diversity approaches, machine learning, and biomarker analyses.  We ultimately included 20 studies containing individual data from 2624 children. Disease was associated with lower bacterial diversity in nasal and lower airway samples and higher relative abundances of specific nasal taxa including  and . Machine learning success in assigning samples to diagnostic groupings varied with anatomical site, with positive predictive value and sensitivity ranging from 43 to 100 and 8 to 99%, respectively.  IPD meta-analysis of the respiratory microbiota across multiple diseases allowed identification of a non-specific disease association which cannot be recognised by studying a single disease. Whilst imperfect, machine learning offers promise as a potential additional tool to aid clinical diagnosis."	
38302236		Methods in cell biology	High-throughput assessment of cellular senescence.	"Cellular senescence is a molecular process that is activated in response to a large variety of distinct stress signals. Mechanistically, cellular senescence is characterized by an arrest in cell cycle accompanied by phenotypic adaptations and physiological alterations including changes in the secretory profile of senescent cells termed the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP). Here we describe a detailed, automation- compatible method for the detection of senescence-associated beta galactosidase (SA-β-gal) activity as a hallmark of cellular senescence using a conventional fluorescent microscope equipped with a transmitted light module. Moreover, we outline a protocol for the automated analysis of cellular senescence using convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and mathematical morphology. In sum, we provide a toolset for the high throughput assessment of cellular senescence based on light microscopy and automated image analysis."	
30971493		Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	"{'i': ['Streptococcus gordonii', 'Porphyromonas gingivalis'], '#text': 'programs epithelial cells to resist ZEB2 induction by .'}"	"The polymicrobial microbiome of the oral cavity is a direct precursor of periodontal diseases, and changes in microhabitat or shifts in microbial composition may also be linked to oral squamous cell carcinoma. Dysbiotic oral epithelial responses provoked by individual organisms, and which underlie these diseases, are widely studied. However, organisms may influence community partner species through manipulation of epithelial cell responses, an aspect of the host microbiome interaction that is poorly understood. We report here that , a keystone periodontal pathogen, can up-regulate expression of ZEB2, a transcription factor which controls epithelial-mesenchymal transition and inflammatory responses. ZEB2 regulation by  was mediated through pathways involving β-catenin and FOXO1. Among the community partners of ,  was capable of antagonizing ZEB2 expression. Mechanistically,  suppressed FOXO1 by activating the TAK1-NLK negative regulatory pathway, even in the presence of  Collectively, these results establish  as homeostatic commensal, capable of mitigating the activity of a more pathogenic organism through modulation of host signaling."	
27294377		Italian journal of pediatrics	"Pianeta Nutrizione kids: international pediatric conference on food, physical activity, growth and well-being : Milan, Italy. 25-27 June 2015."	"A1 Preterm and low birth weight nutrition in the first month life: implications for the outcome Massimo Agosti A2 Behind human milk and breastfeeding: not only food, not only growth Carlo Agostoni A3 To prevent obesity: importance and issues of cultural adaptation from weaning to 3 years of age Serge Chalons A4 Diet before and during pregnancy and child health: lessons from animal models Pascale Chavatte-Palmer A5 Infant nutrition: an opportunity to optimize future health José Manuel Moreno Villares A6 Complementary feeding strategies to facilitate acceptance of fruits and vegetables Sophie Nicklaus A7 Diet of young children in the Mediterranean region Luís Pereira-da-Silva A8 Proposal of 10 good practices to help prevent obesity in the first 1,000 days Angelo Pietrobelli, the MeNu Group A9 Macronutrient intakes in early life and subsequent risk of obesity Marie Françoise Rolland-Cachera A10 The burden of childhood obesity in Italy and the results of Nutrintake study Gian Vincenzo Zuccotti A11 Growth body composition and growth hormone therapy: linear growth Marco Cappa A12 Early nutrition pattern and late metabolic consequences Manuela Caruso-Nicoletti A13 Nutrition and Insulin-like Growth Factor (IGF) System Elena Inzaghi, Stefano Cianfarani A14 Nutrition of preterm infants Mario De Curtis A15 Early nutrition patterns and later metabolic outcomes- I part: Genetic and metabolic mechanisms Laura Guazzarotti A16 Diagnosis of metabolic disease by imaging techniques Lorenzo Iughetti A17 Nutrition, growth and cardiovascular diseases Francesco Chiarelli, Laura Comegna, Simone Franchini A18 Body fat mass and gender Laura Perrone, Giuseppina Rosaria Umano A19 Lifestyle interventions for an appropriate birth weight Elisabetta Petrella, Raffaele Bruno, Valentina Bertarini, Giulia Pedrielli, Isabella Neri, Fabio Facchinetti A20 Nutrition, growth and body composition Flavia Prodam A21 Nation-specific reference growth charts in the daily practice Alessandro Sartorio, John M. H. Buckler, Nicoletta Marazzi A22 Growth patterns in inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) and in cystic fibrosis (CF) Maria E. Street, Viviana D. Patianna, Paola Accorsi, Sara Lo Scocco, Sergio Amarri A23 Newborn in the digital era and their body feeling: physical exercise to counteract hyperphagia Alberto Pellai A24 Nutrition, young athletes and effects of exercise. Practical suggestions Giampiero Merati A25 Physical exercise as a way to prevent criminality in minors and teenagers Isabella Merzagora A26 The measurement of daily energy expenditure in children. Evaluation of a new wrist portable device vs breath-by-breath metabolimeter Susanna Rampichini, Arsenio Veicsteinas A27 Probiotic and inflammasomes Mario Clerici A28 Probiotics and newborns Paolo Manzoni, Elena Tavella, Elena Boano, Daniele Farina A29 Relationship between gut microbiota and obesity Fabio Pace"	
38302241		Methods in cell biology	Mechanistic exploration of autophagy and aging by RNA interference.	"Cellular senescence is a cellular process with organismal impact that is mechanistically counterbalanced to a certain extent by frequent episodes of autophagy. Here we describe a detailed, automation-compatible method for the use of RNA-interference (RNAi; also called post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS))-mediated silencing of autophagy related protein-coding gene expression. RNAi is a conserved biological response to double-stranded RNA that mediates resistance to endogenous parasites and exogenous pathogenic nucleic acids. RNAi mediated by short interfering RNA (siRNA) is widely used for gene function analysis. The accurate use of RNAi for the inference of gene function necessitates that both specificity and efficacy of the siRNA-mediated knockdown are monitored. In this manuscript, we exemplify these crucial steps employing siRNAs targeting the autophagy and lysosomal biogenesis associated transcription factor TFE3 and validate their specificity on protein and mRNA level."	
33609487		The Lancet. Respiratory medicine	"Neutrophil extracellular traps, disease severity, and antibiotic response in bronchiectasis: an international, observational, multicohort study."	"Bronchiectasis is predominantly a neutrophilic inflammatory disease. There are no established therapies that directly target neutrophilic inflammation because little is understood of the underlying mechanisms leading to severe disease. Neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation is a method of host defence that has been implicated in multiple inflammatory diseases. We aimed to investigate the role of NETs in disease severity and treatment response in bronchiectasis. In this observational study, we did a series of UK and international studies to investigate the role of NETs in disease severity and treatment response in bronchiectasis. First, we used liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry to identify proteomic biomarkers associated with disease severity, defined using the bronchiectasis severity index, in patients with bronchiectasis (n=40) in Dundee, UK. Second, we validated these biomarkers in two cohorts of patients with bronchiectasis, the first comprising 175 patients from the TAYBRIDGE study in the UK and the second comprising 275 patients from the BRIDGE cohort study from centres in Italy, Spain, and UK, using an immunoassay to measure NETs. Third, we investigated whether pathogenic bacteria had a role in NET concentrations in patients with severe bronchiectasis. In a separate study, we enrolled patients with acute exacerbations of bronchiectasis (n=20) in Dundee, treated with intravenous antibiotics for 14 days and proteomics were used to identify proteins associated with treatment response. Findings from this cohort were validated in an independent cohort of patients who were admitted to the same hospital (n=20). Fourth, to assess the potential use of macrolides to reduce NETs in patients with bronchiectasis, we examined two studies of long-term macrolide treatment, one in patients with bronchiectasis (n=52 from the UK) in which patients were given 250 mg of azithromycin three times a week for a year, and a post-hoc analysis of the Australian AMAZES trial in patients with asthma (n=47) who were given 500 mg of azithromycin 3 times per week for a year. Sputum proteomics identified that NET-associated proteins were the most abundant and were the proteins most strongly associated with disease severity. This finding was validated in two observational cohorts, in which sputum NETs were associated with bronchiectasis severity index, quality of life, future risk of hospital admission, and mortality. In a subgroup of 20 patients with acute exacerbations, clinical response to intravenous antibiotic treatment was associated with successfully reducing NETs in sputum. Patients with Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection had a lessened proteomic and clinical response to intravenous antibiotic treatment compared with those without Pseudomonas infections, but responded to macrolide therapy. Treatment with low dose azithromycin was associated with a significant reduction in NETs in sputum over 12 months in both bronchiectasis and asthma. We identified NETs as a key marker of disease severity and treatment response in bronchiectasis. These data support the concept of targeting neutrophilic inflammation with existing and novel therapies. Scottish Government, British Lung Foundation, and European Multicentre Bronchiectasis Audit and Research Collaboration (EMBARC)."	
37040415		Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Gas-modulating microcapsules for spatiotemporal control of hypoxia.	"Oxygen is a vital molecule involved in regulating development, homeostasis, and disease. The oxygen levels in tissue vary from 1 to 14% with deviations from homeostasis impacting regulation of various physiological processes. In this work, we developed an approach to encapsulate enzymes at high loading capacity, which precisely controls the oxygen content in cell culture. Here, a single microcapsule is able to locally perturb the oxygen balance, and varying the concentration and distribution of matrix-embedded microcapsules provides spatiotemporal control. We demonstrate attenuation of hypoxia signaling in populations of stem cells, cancer cells, endothelial cells, cancer spheroids, and intestinal organoids. Varying capsule placement, media formulation, and timing of replenishment yields tunable oxygen gradients, with concurrent spatial growth and morphogenesis in a single well. Capsule containing hydrogel films applied to chick chorioallantoic membranes encourages neovascularization, providing scope for topical treatments or hydrogel wound dressings. This platform can be used in a variety of formats, including deposition in hydrogels, as granular solids for 3D bioprinting, and as injectable biomaterials. Overall, this platform's simplicity and flexibility will prove useful for fundamental studies of oxygen-mediated processes in virtually any in vitro or in vivo format, with scope for inclusion in biomedical materials for treating injury or disease."	
33484782		The Journal of hospital infection	Containment of procedure-associated aerosols by an extractor tent: effect on nebulized drug particle dispersal.	"Several medical procedures involving the respiratory tract are considered as 'aerosol-generating procedures'. Aerosols from these procedures may be inhaled by bystanders, and there are consequent concerns regarding the transmission of infection or, specific to nebulized therapy, secondary drug exposure. To assess the efficacy of a proprietary high-efficiency-particulate-air-filtering extractor tent on reducing the aerosol dispersal of nebulized bronchodilator drugs. The study was conducted in an unoccupied outpatient room at St. James's Hospital, Dublin, Ireland. A novel real-time, fluorescent particle counter, the Wideband Integrated Bioaerosol Sensor (WIBS), monitored room air continuously for 3 h. Baseline airborne particle count and count during nebulization of bronchodilator drug solutions were recorded. Nebulization within the tent prevented any increase over background level. Nebulization directly into room air resulted in mean fluorescent particle counts of 4.75 x 10/m and 4.21 x 10/m for Ventolin and Ipramol, respectively, representing more than 400-fold increases over mean background level. More than 99.3% of drug particles were <2 μm in diameter and therefore small enough to enter the lower respiratory tract. The extractor tent was completely effective for the prevention of airborne spread of drug particles of respirable size from nebulized therapy. This suggests that extractor tents of this type would be efficacious for the prevention of airborne infection from aerosol-generating procedures during the COVID-19 pandemic."	
38812570		Oncoimmunology	Clinically relevant GABARAP deficiency abrogates bortezomib-induced immunogenic cell death in multiple myeloma.	"Recently, it was revealed that the high-risk, poor-prognosis downregulation of GABA type A receptor-associated protein (GABARAP) causes a defect in both autophagy and surface exposure of calreticulin (CALR) in multiple myeloma (MM) cells responding to bortezomib. Hence, GABARAP-defective MM cells fail to undergo immunogenic cell death."	
37389102		Oncoimmunology	A Chemically Defined TLR3 Agonist with Anticancer Activity.	"Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) agonists such as polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid (poly(I:C)) have immunostimulatory effects that can be taken advantage of to induce anticancer immune responses in preclinical models. In addition, poly(I:C) has been introduced into clinical trials to demonstrate its efficacy as an adjuvant and to enhance the immunogenicity of locally injected tumors, thus reverting resistance to PD-L1 blockade in melanoma patients. Here, we report the pharmacokinetic, pharmacodynamic, mechanistic and toxicological profile of a novel TLR3 agonist, TL-532, a chemically synthesized double-stranded RNA that is composed by blocks of poly(I:C) and poly(A:U) (polyadenylic - polyuridylic acid). In preclinical models, we show that TL-532 is bioavailable after parenteral injection, has an acceptable toxicological profile, and stimulates the production of multiple chemokines and interleukins that constitute pharmacodynamic markers of its immunostimulatory action. When given at a high dose, TL-532 monotherapy reduced the growth of bladder cancers growing on mice. In addition, in immunodeficient mice lacking formylpeptide receptor-1 (FPR1), TL-532 was able to restore the response of orthotopic subcutaneous fibrosarcoma to immunogenic chemotherapy. Altogether, these findings may encourage further development of TL-532 as an immunotherapeutic anticancer agent."	
38812571		Oncoimmunology	Immunogenic oncolysis by tigilanol tiglate.	"Tigilanol tiglate is an oncolytic small molecule that is undergoing clinical trials. A recent study revealed the capacity of this pyroptosis inducer to elicit hallmarks of immunogenic cell death. In addition, intratumoral injection of tigilanol tiglate can sensitize subcutaneous cancers to subsequent immune checkpoint inhibitors targeting CTLA-4 alone or in combination with PD-1."	
32850504		Frontiers in cellular and infection microbiology	"{'i': 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa', '#text': 'Contribution of Short Chain Fatty Acids to the Growth of  in Rhinosinusitis.'}"	"Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) is characterized by complex bacterial infections with persistent inflammation. Based on our rabbit model of sinusitis, blockage of sinus ostia generated a shift in microbiota to a predominance of mucin degrading microbes (MDM) with acute inflammation at 2 weeks. This was followed by conversion to chronic sinus inflammation at 3 months with a robust increase in pathogenic bacteria (e.g., ). MDMs are known to produce acid metabolites [short chain fatty acids (SCFA)] that have the potential to stimulate pathogen growth by offering a carbon source to non-fermenting sinus pathogens (e.g., ). The objective of this study is to evaluate the concentrations of SCFA within the mucus and its contribution to the growth of .  Healthy and sinusitis mucus from the rabbit model were collected and co-cultured with the PAO1 strain of  for 72 h and colony forming units (CFUs) were determined with the targeted quantification of three SCFAs (acetate, propionate, butyrate). Quantification of SCFAs in healthy and sinusitis mucus from patients with  was also performed via high performance liquid chromatography.  To provide evidence of fermentative activity, SCFAs were quantified within the mucus samples from rabbits with and without sinusitis. Acetate concentrations were significantly greater in sinusitis mucus compared to controls (4.13 ± 0.53 vs. 1.94 ± 0.44 mM,  < 0.01). After 72 h of co-culturing mucus samples with PAO1 in the presence of mucin medium, the blue-green pigment characteristic of  was observed throughout tubes containing sinusitis mucus. CFUs were higher in cultures containing mucus samples from sinusitis (8.4 × 10 ± 4.8 × 10) compared to control (1.4 × 10 ± 2.0 × 10) or no mucus (1.5 × 10 ± 2.1 × 10) ( < 0.0001). To provide evidence of fermentative activity in human CRS with , the presence of SCFAs in human mucus was analyzed and all SCFAs were significantly higher in CRS with  compared to controls ( < 0.05).  Given that SCFAs are solely derived from bacterial fermentation, our evidence suggests a critical role for mucin-degrading bacteria in generating carbon-source nutrients for pathogens. MDM may contribute to the development of recalcitrant CRS by degrading mucins, thus providing nutrients for potential pathogens like ."	
37371112		Cells	Identification of Small Molecules Affecting the Secretion of Therapeutic Antibodies with the Retention Using Selective Hook (RUSH) System.	"Unlocking cell secretion capacity is of paramount interest for the pharmaceutical industry focused on biologics. Here, we leveraged retention using a selective hook (RUSH) system for the identification of human osteosarcoma U2OS cell secretion modulators, through automated, high-throughput screening of small compound libraries. We created a U2OS cell line which co-expresses a variant of streptavidin addressed to the lumen-facing membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and a recombinant anti-PD-L1 antibody. The heavy chain of the antibody was modified at its C-terminus, to which a furin cleavage site, a green fluorescent protein (GFP), and a streptavidin binding peptide (SBP) were added. We show that the U2OS cell line stably expresses the streptavidin hook and the recombinant antibody bait, which is retained in the ER through the streptavidin-SBP interaction. We further document that the addition of biotin to the culture medium triggers the antibody release from the ER, its trafficking through the Golgi where the GFP-SBP moiety is clipped off, and eventually its release in the extra cellular space, with specific antigen-binding properties. The use of this clone in screening campaigns led to the identification of lycorine as a secretion enhancer, and nigericin and tyrphostin AG-879 as secretion inhibitors. Altogether, our data support the utility of this approach for the identification of agents that could be used to improve recombinant production yields and also for a better understanding of the regulatory mechanism at work in the conventional secretion pathway."	
36600337		BMJ open	"Standardised treatment and monitoring protocol to assess safety and tolerability of bacteriophage therapy for adult and paediatric patients (STAMP study): protocol for an open-label, single-arm trial."	"There has been renewed interest in the therapeutic use of bacteriophages (phages); however, standardised therapeutic protocols are lacking, and there is a paucity of rigorous clinical trial data assessing efficacy. We propose an open-label, single-arm trial investigating a standardised treatment and monitoring protocol for phage therapy. Patients included will have exhausted other therapeutic options for control of their infection and phage therapy will be administered under Australia's Therapeutic Goods Administration Special Access Scheme. A phage product with high  activity against the targeted pathogen(s) must be available in line with relevant regulatory requirements. We aim to recruit 50-100 patients over 5 years, from any public or private hospitals in Australia. The standardised protocol will specify clinical assessments and biological sampling at scheduled time points. The primary outcome is safety at day 29, assessed by the frequency of adverse events, and overseen by an independent Data Safety Monitoring Board. Secondary outcomes include long-term safety (frequency of adverse events until at least 6 months following phage therapy), and feasibility, measured as the proportion of participants with>80% of minimum data available for analysis. Additional endpoints assessed include clinical response, patient/guardian reported quality of life measures, phage pharmacokinetics, human host immune responses and microbiome analysis. All trial outcomes will be summarised and presented using standard descriptive statistics. Participant inclusion will be dependent on obtaining written informed consent from the patient or guardian. The trial protocol was approved by the Sydney Children's Hospitals Network Human Research Ethics Committee in December 2021 (Reference 2021/ETH11861). In addition to publication in a peer-reviewed scientific journal, a lay summary of study outcomes will be made available for participants and the public on the Phage Australia website (https://www.phageaustralia.org/). Registered on ANZCTR, 10 November 2021 (ACTRN12621001526864; WHO Universal Trial Number: U1111-1269-6000)."	
37989732		Cell death & disease	"3,4-dimethoxychalcone induces autophagy and reduces neointimal hyperplasia and aortic lesions in mouse models of atherosclerosis."	"Autophagy inducers can prevent cardiovascular aging and age-associated diseases including atherosclerosis. Therefore, we hypothesized that autophagy-inducing compounds that act on atherosclerosis-relevant cells might have a protective role in the development of atherosclerosis. Here we identified 3,4-dimethoxychalcone (3,4-DC) as an inducer of autophagy in several cell lines from endothelial, myocardial and myeloid/macrophagic origin, as demonstrated by the aggregation of the autophagosome marker GFP-LC3 in the cytoplasm of cells, as well as the downregulation of its nuclear pool indicative of autophagic flux. In this respect, 3,4-DC showed a broader autophagy-inducing activity than another chalcone (4,4- dimethoxychalcone), spermidine and triethylene tetramine. Thus, we characterized the potential antiatherogenic activity of 3,4-DC in two different mouse models, namely, (i) neointima formation with smooth muscle expansion of vein segments grafted to the carotid artery and (ii) genetically predisposed ApoE mice fed an atherogenic diet. In the vein graft model, local application of 3,4-DC was able to maintain the lumen of vessels and to reduce neointima lesions. In the diet-induced model, intraperitoneal injections of 3,4-DC significantly reduced the number of atherosclerotic lesions in the aorta. In conclusion, 3,4-DC stands out as an autophagy inducer with potent antiatherogenic activity."	
37973897		Nature metabolism	"{'sub': '12', '#text': 'Vitamin B is a limiting factor for induced cellular plasticity and tissue repair.'}"	"Transient reprogramming by the expression of OCT4, SOX2, KLF4 and MYC (OSKM) is a therapeutic strategy for tissue regeneration and rejuvenation, but little is known about its metabolic requirements. Here we show that OSKM reprogramming in mice causes a global depletion of vitamin B and molecular hallmarks of methionine starvation. Supplementation with vitamin B increases the efficiency of reprogramming both in mice and in cultured cells, the latter indicating a cell-intrinsic effect. We show that the epigenetic mark H3K36me3, which prevents illegitimate initiation of transcription outside promoters (cryptic transcription), is sensitive to vitamin B levels, providing evidence for a link between B levels, H3K36 methylation, transcriptional fidelity and efficient reprogramming. Vitamin B supplementation also accelerates tissue repair in a model of ulcerative colitis. We conclude that vitamin B, through its key role in one-carbon metabolism and epigenetic dynamics, improves the efficiency of in vivo reprogramming and tissue repair."	
35659905		The Lancet. Microbe	"Sustained effect of LACTIN-V (Lactobacillus crispatus CTV-05) on genital immunology following standard bacterial vaginosis treatment: results from a randomised, placebo-controlled trial."	"Bacterial vaginosis might increase HIV risk by eliciting genital inflammation and epithelial barrier disruption, whereas vaginal Lactobacillus crispatus is associated with immune quiescence and HIV protection. We investigated the effect of a live biotherapeutic containing L crispatus CTV-05 (LACTIN-V) on genital immunology and key vaginal bacteria. This substudy included women aged 18-45 years who participated in the randomised, placebo-controlled, phase 2b trial of LACTIN-V to reduce bacterial vaginosis recurrence, conducted at four universities and hospitals in the USA. Women with negative results for sexually transmitted infection, pregnancy, and urinary tract infection were provided a 5-day course of vaginal metronidazole 0·75% gel. Those who met at least three of four clinical Amsel criteria for bacterial vaginosis and had a Nugent score of 4-10 from Gram staining were eligible. Participants in the LACTIN-V trial were randomly assigned (2:1) to receive either LACTIN-V or placebo, applied vaginally once per day for 5 days during the first week and then twice per week for 10 more weeks. Follow-up visits occurred 4, 8, 12, and 24 weeks after enrolment. Soluble immune factors and the absolute abundance of bacterial taxa were assayed by mutliplex ELISA and quantitative PCR. The primary outcomes were vaginal levels of IL-1α and soluble E-cadherin at 24 weeks (ie, 13 weeks after treatment cessation). Between Feb 21, 2020 and March 18, 2021, we characterised genital immune parameters and the vaginal microbiota in a subset of 66 highly adherent participants who were randomly selected, with no exclusion criteria, from those who had attended all study follow-up visits (n=166) in the larger LACTIN-V clinical trial (n=288). 32 (48%) participants received LACTIN-V and 34 (52%) received placebo. LACTIN-V treatment was significantly associated with lower concentrations of the proinflammatory cytokine IL-1α (β coefficient 0·310, SE 0·149; p=0·042) and soluble E-cadherin (0·429, 0·199; p=0·035), a biomarker of epithelial barrier disruption. Vaginal administration of LACTIN-V following standard bacterial vaginosis therapy resulted in a sustained reduction in genital inflammation and a biomarker of epithelial integrity. The potential of LACTIN-V to reduce HIV susceptibility merits further investigation. Canadian Institutes of Health Research and the National Institutes of Health National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases."	
37344100		Journal for immunotherapy of cancer	New hormone receptor-positive breast cancer mouse cell line mimicking the immune microenvironment of anti-PD-1 resistant mammary carcinoma.	"Progress in breast cancer (BC) research relies on the availability of suitable cell lines that can be implanted in immunocompetent laboratory mice. The best studied mouse strain, C57BL/6, is also the only one for which multiple genetic variants are available to facilitate the exploration of the cancer-immunity dialog. Driven by the fact that no hormone receptor-positive (HR) C57BL/6-derived mammary carcinoma cell lines are available, we decided to establish such cell lines. BC was induced in female C57BL/6 mice using a synthetic progesterone analog (medroxyprogesterone acetate, MPA) combined with a DNA damaging agent (7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene, DMBA). Cell lines were established from these tumors and selected for dual (estrogen+progesterone) receptor positivity, as well as transplantability into C57BL/6 immunocompetent females. One cell line, which we called B6BC, fulfilled these criteria and allowed for the establishment of invasive estrogen receptor-positive (ER) tumors with features of epithelial to mesenchymal transition that were abundantly infiltrated by myeloid immune populations but scarcely by T lymphocytes, as determined by single-nucleus RNA sequencing and high-dimensional leukocyte profiling. Such tumors failed to respond to programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) blockade, but reduced their growth on treatment with ER antagonists, as well as with anthracycline-based chemotherapy, which was not influenced by T-cell depletion. Moreover, B6BC-derived tumors reduced their growth on CD11b blockade, indicating tumor sustainment by myeloid cells. The immune environment and treatment responses recapitulated by B6BC-derived tumors diverged from those of ER TS/A cell-derived tumors in BALB/C mice, and of ER E0771 cell-derived and MPA/DMBA-induced tumors in C57BL/6 mice. B6BC is the first transplantable HR BC cell line derived from C57BL/6 mice and B6BC-derived tumors recapitulate the complex tumor microenvironment of locally advanced HR BC naturally resistant to PD-1 immunotherapy."	
38582872		Cell death & disease	"{'sub': 'A', '#text': 'Inhibition of acyl-CoA binding protein (ACBP) by means of a GABARγ2-derived peptide.'}"	"Acyl-CoA binding protein (ACBP) encoded by diazepam binding inhibitor (DBI) is an extracellular inhibitor of autophagy acting on the gamma-aminobutyric acid A receptor (GABAR) γ2 subunit (GABARγ2). Here, we show that lipoanabolic diets cause an upregulation of GABARγ2 protein in liver hepatocytes but not in other major organs. ACBP/DBI inhibition by systemically injected antibodies has been demonstrated to mediate anorexigenic and organ-protective, autophagy-dependent effects. Here, we set out to develop a new strategy for developing ACBP/DBI antagonists. For this, we built a molecular model of the interaction of ACBP/DBI with peptides derived from GABARγ2. We then validated the interaction between recombinant and native ACBP/DBI protein and a GABARγ2-derived eicosapeptide (but not its F77I mutant) by pull down experiments or surface plasmon resonance. The GABARγ2-derived eicosapeptide inhibited the metabolic activation of hepatocytes by recombinant ACBP/DBI protein in vitro. Moreover, the GABARγ2-derived eicosapeptide (but not its F77I-mutated control) blocked appetite stimulation by recombinant ACBP/DBI in vivo, induced autophagy in the liver, and protected mice against the hepatotoxin concanavalin A. We conclude that peptidomimetics disrupting the interaction between ACBP/DBI and GABARγ2 might be used as ACBP/DBI antagonists. This strategy might lead to the future development of clinically relevant small molecules of the ACBP/DBI system."	
37015922		Cell death & disease	Necrocide 1 mediates necrotic cell death and immunogenic response in human cancer cells.	"Many anticancer agents induce apoptosis, mitotic catastrophe or cellular senescence. Here, we report the functional characterization of an experimental inducer of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-independent necrosis, necrocide-1 (NC1). NC1 (but not its stereoisomer) killed a panel of human cancer cells (but not normal cells) at nanomolar concentrations and with a non-apoptotic, necrotic morphotype, both in vitro and in vivo. NC1-induced killing was not inhibited by caspase blockers, anti-apoptotic BCL2 overexpression or TNFα neutralization, suggesting that NC1 elicits a bona fide necrotic pathway. However, pharmacological or genetic inhibition of necroptosis, pyroptosis and ferroptosis failed to block NC1-mediated cell death. Instead, NC1 elicited reactive oxygen species (ROS) production by mitochondria, and elimination of mitochondrial DNA, quenching of mitochondrial ROS, as well as blockade of mitochondrial permeability transition with cyclosporine A, interfered with NC1-induced cell death. NC1 induced hallmarks of immunogenic cell death incurring calreticulin (CALR) exposure, ATP secretion and high mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) release. Taken together, these data identify a previously uncharacterized signaling cascade leading to an immunogenic variant of mitochondrion-regulated necrosis, supporting the notion that eliciting regulated necrosis may constitute a valid approach for anticancer therapy."	
37419511		Journal for immunotherapy of cancer	Anticancer effects of ikarugamycin and astemizole identified in a screen for stimulators of cellular immune responses.	"Most immunotherapies approved for clinical use rely on the use of recombinant proteins and cell-based approaches, rendering their manufacturing expensive and logistics onerous. The identification of novel small molecule immunotherapeutic agents might overcome such limitations. For immunopharmacological screening campaigns, we built an artificial miniature immune system in which dendritic cells (DCs) derived from immature precursors present MHC (major histocompatibility complex) class I-restricted antigen to a T-cell hybridoma that then secretes interleukin-2 (IL-2). The screening of three drug libraries relevant to known signaling pathways, FDA (Food and Drug Administration)-approved drugs and neuroendocrine factors yielded two major hits, astemizole and ikarugamycin. Mechanistically, ikarugamycin turned out to act on DCs to inhibit hexokinase 2, hence stimulating their antigen presenting potential. In contrast, astemizole acts as a histamine H1 receptor (H1R1) antagonist to activate T cells in a non-specific, DC-independent fashion. Astemizole induced the production of IL-2 and interferon-γ (IFN-γ) by CD4 and CD8 T cells both in vitro and in vivo. Both ikarugamycin and astemizole improved the anticancer activity of the immunogenic chemotherapeutic agent oxaliplatin in a T cell-dependent fashion. Of note, astemizole enhanced the CD8/Foxp3 ratio in the tumor immune infiltrate as well as IFN-γ production by local CD8 T lymphocytes. In patients with cancer, high H1R1 expression correlated with low infiltration by TH1 cells, as well as with signs of T-cell exhaustion. The combination of astemizole and oxaliplatin was able to cure the majority of mice bearing orthotopic non-small cell lung cancers (NSCLC), then inducing a state of protective long-term immune memory. The NSCLC-eradicating effect of astemizole plus oxaliplatin was lost on depletion of either CD4 or CD8 T cells, as well as on neutralization of IFN-γ. These findings underscore the potential utility of this screening system for the identification of immunostimulatory drugs with anticancer effects."	
36899942		Cells	"{'i': 'LRRK2', '#text': ""Changes in Liver Lipidomic Profile in G2019S- Mouse Model of Parkinson's Disease.""}"	"The identification of Parkinson's disease (PD) biomarkers has become a main goal for the diagnosis of this neurodegenerative disorder. PD has not only been intrinsically related to neurological problems, but also to a series of alterations in peripheral metabolism. The purpose of this study was to identify metabolic changes in the liver in mouse models of PD with the scope of finding new peripheral biomarkers for PD diagnosis. To achieve this goal, we used mass spectrometry technology to determine the complete metabolomic profile of liver and striatal tissue samples from WT mice, 6-hydroxydopamine-treated mice (idiopathic model) and mice affected by the G2019S- mutation in  gene (genetic model). This analysis revealed that the metabolism of carbohydrates, nucleotides and nucleosides was similarly altered in the liver from the two PD mouse models. However, long-chain fatty acids, phosphatidylcholine and other related lipid metabolites were only altered in hepatocytes from G2019S- mice. In summary, these results reveal specific differences, mainly in lipid metabolism, between idiopathic and genetic PD models in peripheral tissues and open up new possibilities to better understand the etiology of this neurological disorder."	
32077450		Rhinology	European Position Paper on Rhinosinusitis and Nasal Polyps 2020.	"The European Position Paper on Rhinosinusitis and Nasal Polyps 2020 is the update of similar evidence based position papers published in 2005 and 2007 and 2012. The core objective of the EPOS2020 guideline is to provide revised, up-to-date and clear evidence-based recommendations and integrated care pathways in ARS and CRS. EPOS2020 provides an update on the literature published and studies undertaken in the eight years since the EPOS2012 position paper was published and addresses areas not extensively covered in EPOS2012 such as paediatric CRS and sinus surgery. EPOS2020 also involves new stakeholders, including pharmacists and patients, and addresses new target users who have become more involved in the management and treatment of rhinosinusitis since the publication of the last EPOS document, including pharmacists, nurses, specialised care givers and indeed patients themselves, who employ increasing self-management of their condition using over the counter treatments. The document provides suggestions for future research in this area and offers updated guidance for definitions and outcome measurements in research in different settings. EPOS2020 contains chapters on definitions and classification where we have defined a large number of terms and indicated preferred terms. A new classification of CRS into primary and secondary CRS and further division into localized and diffuse disease, based on anatomic distribution is proposed. There are extensive chapters on epidemiology and predisposing factors, inflammatory mechanisms, (differential) diagnosis of facial pain, allergic rhinitis, genetics, cystic fibrosis, aspirin exacerbated respiratory disease, immunodeficiencies, allergic fungal rhinosinusitis and the relationship between upper and lower airways. The chapters on paediatric acute and chronic rhinosinusitis are totally rewritten. All available evidence for the management of acute rhinosinusitis and chronic rhinosinusitis with or without nasal polyps in adults and children is systematically reviewed and integrated care pathways based on the evidence are proposed. Despite considerable increases in the amount of quality publications in recent years, a large number of practical clinical questions remain. It was agreed that the best way to address these was to conduct a Delphi exercise . The results have been integrated into the respective sections. Last but not least, advice for patients and pharmacists and a new list of research needs are included. The full document can be downloaded for free on the website of this journal: http://www.rhinologyjournal.com."	
29444193		The World Allergy Organization journal	"Proceedings of the 2017 WAO Symposium on Hot Topics in Allergy: Pediatric & Regulatory Aspects: Rome, Italy/Vatican City. 27-29 April 2017."		
38702223	metagenomics	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Widespread alterations in systemic immune profile are linked to lung function heterogeneity and airway microbes in cystic fibrosis.	"Excessive inflammation and recurrent airway infections characterize people with cystic fibrosis (pwCF), a disease with highly heterogeneous clinical outcomes. How the overall immune response is affected in pwCF, its relationships with the lung microbiome, and the source of clinical heterogeneity have not been fully elucidated. Peripheral blood and sputum samples were collected from 28 pwCF and an age-matched control group. Systemic immune cell subsets and surface markers were quantified using multiparameter flow cytometry. Lung microbiome composition was reconstructed using metatranscriptomics on sputum samples, and microbial taxa were correlated to circulating immune cells and surface markers expression. In pwCF, we found a specific systemic immune profile characterized by widespread hyperactivation and altered frequencies of several subsets. These included substantial changes in B-cell subsets, enrichment of CD35/CD49d neutrophils, and reduction in dendritic cells. Activation markers and checkpoint molecule expression levels differed from healthy subjects. CTLA-4 expression was increased in Tregs and, together with impaired B-cell subsets, correlated with patients' lung function. Concentrations and frequencies of key immune cells and marker expression correlated with the relative abundance of commensal and pathogenic bacteria in the lungs. The CF-specific immune signature, involving hyperactivation, immune dysregulation with alteration in Treg homeostasis, and impaired B-cell function, is a potential source of lung function heterogeneity. The activity of specific microbes contributes to disrupting the balance of the immune response. Our data provide a unique foundation for identifying novel markers and immunomodulatory targets to develop the future of cystic fibrosis treatment and management."	28
34827347	microbial genomics	"Antibiotics (Basel, Switzerland)"	"{'i': 'Herbaspirillum frisingense', '#text': 'High Genomic Identity between Clinical and Environmental Strains of  Suggests Pre-Adaptation to Different Hosts and Intrinsic Resistance to Multiple Drugs.'}"	"The genus  is widely studied for its ability to associate with grasses and to perform biological nitrogen fixation. However, the bacteria of the  genus have frequently been isolated from clinical samples. Understanding the genomic characteristics that allow these bacteria to switch environments and become able to colonize human hosts is essential for monitoring emerging pathogens and predicting outbreaks. In this work, we describe the sequencing, assembly, and annotation of the genome of  AU14559 isolated from the sputum of patients with cystic fibrosis, and its comparison with the genomes of the uropathogenic strain VT-16-41 and the environmental strains GSF30, BH-1, IAC152, and SG826. The genes responsible for biological nitrogen fixation were absent from all strains except for GSF30. On the other hand, genes encoding virulence and host interaction factors were mostly shared with environmental strains. We also identified a large set of intrinsic antibiotic resistance genes that were shared across all strains. Unlike other strains, in addition to unique genomic islands, AU14559 has a mutation that renders the biosynthesis of rhamnose and its incorporation into the exopolysaccharide unfeasible. These data suggest that  has characteristics that provide it with the metabolic diversity needed to infect and colonize human hosts."	
35471121	microbial genomics	mSystems	Genetic and Transcriptomic Characteristics of RhlR-Dependent Quorum Sensing in Cystic Fibrosis Isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa.	"In people with the genetic disease cystic fibrosis (CF), bacterial infections involving the opportunistic pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa are a significant cause of morbidity and mortality. P. aeruginosa uses a cell-cell signaling mechanism called quorum sensing (QS) to regulate many virulence functions. One type of QS consists of acyl-homoserine lactone (AHL) signals produced by LuxI-type signal synthases, which bind a cognate LuxR-type transcription factor. In laboratory strains and conditions, P. aeruginosa employs two AHL synthase/receptor pairs arranged in a hierarchy, with the LasI/R system controlling the RhlI/R system and many downstream virulence factors. However, P. aeruginosa isolates with inactivating mutations in  are frequently isolated from chronic CF infections. We and others have shown that these isolates frequently use RhlR as the primary QS regulator. RhlR is rarely mutated in CF and environmental settings. We were interested in determining whether there were reproducible genetic characteristics of these isolates and whether there was a central group of genes regulated by RhlR in all isolates. We examined five isolates and found signatures of adaptation common to CF isolates. We did not identify a common genetic mechanism to explain the switch from Las- to Rhl-dominated QS. We describe a core RhlR regulon encompassing 20 genes encoding 7 products. These results suggest a key group of QS-regulated factors important for pathogenesis of chronic infections and position RhlR as a target for anti-QS therapeutics. Our work underscores the need to sample a diversity of isolates to understand QS beyond what has been described in laboratory strains.  The bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa can cause chronic infections that are resistant to treatment in immunocompromised individuals. Over the course of these infections, the original infecting organism adapts to the host environment. P. aeruginosa uses a cell-cell signaling mechanism termed quorum sensing (QS) to regulate virulence factors and cooperative behaviors. The key QS regulator in laboratory strains, LasR, is frequently mutated in infection-adapted isolates, leaving another transcription factor, RhlR, in control of QS gene regulation. Such isolates provide an opportunity to understand Rhl-QS regulation without the confounding effects of LasR, as well as the scope of QS in the context of within-host evolution. We show that a core group of virulence genes is regulated by RhlR in a variety of infection-adapted LasR-null isolates. Our results reveal commonalities in infection-adapted QS gene regulation and key QS factors that may serve as therapeutic targets in the future."	
32855272	human genomics	Life science alliance	An atlas of human proximal epididymis reveals cell-specific functions and distinct roles for CFTR.	"Spermatozoa released from the testis are unable to fertilize an egg without a coordinated process of maturation in the lumen of the epididymis. Relatively little is known about the molecular events that integrate this critical progression along the male genital ducts in man. Here, we use single cell RNA-sequencing to construct an atlas of the human proximal epididymis. We find that the CFTR, which is pivotal in normal epididymis fluid transport, is most abundant in surface epithelial cells in the efferent ducts and in rare clear cells in the caput epididymis, suggesting region-specific functional properties. We reveal transcriptional signatures for multiple cell clusters, which identify the individual roles of principal, apical, narrow, basal, clear, halo, and stromal cells in the epididymis. A marked cell type-specific distribution of function is seen along the duct with local specialization of individual cell types integrating processes of sperm maturation."	
18227268	microbial genomics	"Microbiology (Reading, England)"	A novel oxidized low-density lipoprotein-binding protein from Pseudomonas aeruginosa.	"A novel protein, PA0122, has been identified in Pseudomonas aeruginosa and shown to bind to oxidized low-density lipoprotein (Ox-LDL). The PA0122 gene was recognized based on gene expression pattern differences between two strains of P. aeruginosa isolated from the sputum of an individual with cystic fibrosis (CF). There was an approximately eightfold increase in PA0122 expression in the non-mucoid strain 383, compared to that in the mucoid strain 2192. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) supported PA0122 transcript expression differences between strains 383 and 2192 and revealed growth-phase dependence, with the highest level of expression at early stationary phase (OD(600) 1.5). PA0122 encodes a 136 aa 'conserved hypothetical' protein that has similarity to Aspergillus fumigatus Asp-haemolysin, which is an Ox-LDL-binding protein, and possessed a motif that is homologous to the fungal aegerolysin family of proteins. Antibodies produced to purified recombinant PA0122 recognized a 16 kDa protein band in cell lysates as well as in the supernatant fractions of strain 383. The PA0122 protein expression pattern was growth phase-dependent, with maximal production observed at OD(600) 1.5 that was consistent with the PA0122 transcript expression profile. Subcellular fractionation studies revealed differences in the localization of PA0122 between strains 383 and 2192. In 383, PA0122 was observed in the cytoplasm and in membrane fractions. In 2192, PA0122 was found in the cytoplasm but was not detected in membrane fractions. Surface plasmon resonance revealed that recombinant PA0122 binds with high affinity to Ox-LDL and to its major subcomponent, lysophosphatidylcholine, but not to non-oxidized LDL."	
30014495	human genomics	"Hepatology (Baltimore, Md.)"	"MicroRNA Sequencing Identifies a Serum MicroRNA Panel, Which Combined With Aspartate Aminotransferase to Platelet Ratio Index Can Detect and Monitor Liver Disease in Pediatric Cystic Fibrosis."	"Cystic fibrosis (CF)-associated liver disease (CFLD) is a hepatobiliary complication of CF. Current diagnostic modalities rely on nonspecific assessments, whereas liver biopsy is the gold standard to assess severity of fibrosis. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate liver disease pathogenesis and are proposed as diagnostic biomarkers. We investigated the combined use of serum miRNAs and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) to platelet ratio (APRI) to diagnose and assess CFLD severity. This was a cross-sectional cohort study of the circulatory miRNA signature of 124 children grouped by clinical, biochemical, and imaging assessments as follows: CFLD (n = 44), CF patients with no evidence of liver disease (CFnoLD; n = 40), and healthy controls (n = 40). Serum miRNAs were analyzed using miRNA sequencing (miRNA-Seq). Selected differentially expressed serum miRNA candidates were further validated by qRT-PCR and statistical analysis performed to evaluate utility to predict CFLD and fibrosis severity validated by liver biopsy, alone or in combination with APRI. Serum miR-122-5p, miR-365a-3p, and miR-34a-5p levels were elevated in CFLD compared to CFnoLD, whereas miR-142-3p and let-7g-5p were down-regulated in CFLD compared to CFnoLD. Logistic regression analysis combining miR-365a-3p, miR-142-3p, and let-7g-5p with APRI showed 21 times greater odds of accurately predicting liver disease in CF with an area under the receiver operating characteristics curve (AUROC) = 0.91 (sensitivity = 83%, specificity = 92%; P < 0.0001). Expression levels of serum miR-18a-5p were correlated with increasing hepatic fibrosis (HF) stage in CFLD (r  = 0.56; P < 0.0001), showing good diagnostic accuracy for distinguishing severe (F3-F4) from mild/moderate fibrosis (F0-F2). A unit increase of miR-18a-5p showed a 7-fold increased odds of having severe fibrosis with an AUROC = 0.82 (sensitivity = 93%, specificity = 73%; P = 0.004), indicating its potential to predict fibrosis severity. Conclusion: We identified a distinct circulatory miRNA profile in pediatric CFLD with potential to accurately discriminate liver disease and fibrosis severity in children with CF."	
30598261	human genomics	Biochemical and biophysical research communications	Integrative expression analysis identifies a novel interplay between CFTR and linc-SUMF1-2 that involves CF-associated gene dysregulation.	"Cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator (CFTR) is a cyclic AMP-dependent Cl channel, and its dysfunction, due to CFTR gene mutations, causes the lethal inherited disorder cystic fibrosis (CF). To date, widespread dysregulation of certain coding genes in CF airway epithelial cells is well studied and considered as the driver of pulmonary abnormality. However, the involvement of non-coding genes, novel classes of functional RNAs with little or no protein-coding capacity, in the regulation of CF-associated gene dysregulation is poorly understood. Here, we utilized integrative analyses of human transcriptome array (HTA) and characterized 99 coding and 91 non-coding RNAs that are dysregulated in CFTR-defective CF bronchial epithelial cell line CFBE41o-. Among these genes, the expression level of linc-SUMF1-2, an intergenic non-coding RNA (lincRNA) whose function is unknown, was inversely correlated with that of WT-CFTR and consistently higher in primary human CF airway epithelial cells (DHBE-CF). Further integrative analyses under linc-SUMF1-knockdown condition determined MXRA5, SEMA5A, CXCL10, AK022877, CTGF, MYC, AREG and LAMB3 as both CFTR- and linc-SUMF1-2-dependent dysregulated gene sets in CF airway epithelial cells. Overall, our analyses reveal linc-SUMF1-2 as a dysregulated non-coding gene in CF as well as CFTR-linc-SUMF1-2 axis as a novel regulatory pathway involved in CF-associated gene dysregulation."	
33214293	microbial genomics	Microbiology resource announcements	"{'i': 'Mycobacteroides', '#text': 'Draft Genome Sequence of  sp. Strain LB1, Isolated from the Sputum of a Cystic Fibrosis Patient.'}"	"We report the draft genome sequence of  sp. strain LB1, isolated from the sputum of a cystic fibrosis patient in Berlin, Germany. The genome size is 4.9 Mbp with a GC content of 63.8%. The genome is only distantly related to other  species, suggesting that it may represent a novel species."	
36516754	human genomics	Cell reports	Recruited monocytes/macrophages drive pulmonary neutrophilic inflammation and irreversible lung tissue remodeling in cystic fibrosis.	"Persistent neutrophil-dominated lung inflammation contributes to lung damage in cystic fibrosis (CF). However, the mechanisms that drive persistent lung neutrophilia and tissue deterioration in CF are not well characterized. Starting from the observation that, in patients with CF, c-c motif chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2) monocytes/macrophages are abundant in the lungs, we investigate the interplay between monocytes/macrophages and neutrophils in perpetuating lung tissue damage in CF. Here we show that CCR2 monocytes in murine CF lungs drive pathogenic transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) signaling and sustain a pro-inflammatory environment by facilitating neutrophil recruitment. Targeting CCR2 to lower the numbers of monocytes in CF lungs ameliorates neutrophil inflammation and pathogenic TGF-β signaling and prevents lung tissue damage. This study identifies CCR2 monocytes as a neglected contributor to the pathogenesis of CF lung disease and as a therapeutic target for patients with CF, for whom lung hyperinflammation and tissue damage remain an issue despite recent advances in CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR)-specific therapeutic agents."	
19234113	microbial genomics	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Mapping the Burkholderia cenocepacia niche response via high-throughput sequencing.	"Determining how an organism responds to its environment by altering gene expression is key to understanding its ecology. Here, we used RNA-seq to comprehensively and quantitatively assess the transcriptional response of the bacterial opportunistic cystic fibrosis (CF) pathogen and endemic soil dweller, Burkholderia cenocepacia, in conditions mimicking these 2 environments. By sequencing 762 million bases of cDNA from 2 closely related B. cenocepacia strains (one isolated from a CF patient and one from soil), we identified a number of potential virulence factors expressed under CF-like conditions, whereas genes whose protein products are involved in nitrogen scavenging and 2-component sensing were among those induced under soil-like conditions. Interestingly, 13 new putative noncoding RNAs were discovered using this technique, 12 of which are preferentially induced in the soil environment, suggesting that ncRNAs play an important role in survival in the soil. In addition, we detected a surprisingly large number of regulatory differences between the 2 strains, which may represent specific adaptations to the niches from which each strain was isolated, despite their high degree of DNA sequence similarity. Compared with the CF strain, the soil strain shows a stronger global gene expression response to its environment, which is consistent with the need for a more dynamic reaction to the heterogeneous conditions of soil."	
37932341	human genomics	Scientific reports	Transcriptome analysis reveals the impact of NETs activation on airway epithelial cell EMT and inflammation in bronchiolitis obliterans.	"Bronchiolitis obliterans (BO) is a chronic airway disease that was often indicated by the pathological presentation of narrowed and irreversible airways. However, the molecular mechanisms of BO pathogenesis remain unknown. Although neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) can contribute to inflammatory disorders, their involvement in BO is unclear. This study aims to identify potential signaling pathways in BO by exploring the correlations between NETs and BO. GSE52761 and GSE137169 datasets were downloaded from gene expression omnibus (GEO) database. A series of bioinformatics analyses such as differential expression analysis, gene ontology (GO), Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG), and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) were performed on GSE52761 and GSE137169 datasets to identify BO potential signaling pathways. Two different types of BO mouse models were constructed to verify NETs involvements in BO. Additional experiments and bioinformatics analysis using human small airway epithelial cells (SAECs) were also performed to further elucidate differential genes enrichment with their respective signaling pathways in BO. Our study identified 115 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) that were found up-regulated in BO. Pathway enrichment analysis revealed that these genes were primarily involved in inflammatory signaling processes. Besides, we found that neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) were formed and activated during BO. Our western blot analysis on lung tissue from BO mice further confirmed NETs activation in BO, where neutrophil elastase (NE) and myeloperoxidase (MPO) expression were found significantly elevated. Transcriptomic and bioinformatics analysis of NETs treated-SAECs also revealed that NETs-DEGs were primarily associated through inflammatory and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) -related pathways. Our study provides novel clues towards the understanding of BO pathogenesis, in which NETs contribute to BO pathogenesis through the activation of inflammatory and EMT associated pathways. The completion of our study will provide the basis for potential novel therapeutic targets in BO treatment."	
25329529	human genomics	PloS one	Systematic analysis of blood cell transcriptome in end-stage chronic respiratory diseases.	"End-stage chronic respiratory diseases (CRD) have systemic consequences, such as weight loss and susceptibility to infection. However the mechanisms of such dysfunctions are as yet poorly explained. We hypothesized that the genes putatively involved in these mechanisms would emerge from a systematic analysis of blood mRNA profiles from pre-transplant patients with cystic fibrosis (CF), pulmonary hypertension (PAH), and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Whole blood was first collected from 13 patients with PAH, 23 patients with CF, and 28 Healthy Controls (HC). Microarray results were validated by quantitative PCR on a second and independent group (7PAH, 9CF, and 11HC). Twelve pre-transplant COPD patients were added to validate the common signature shared by patients with CRD for all causes. To further clarify a role for hypoxia in the candidate gene dysregulation, peripheral blood mononuclear cells from HC were analysed for their mRNA profile under hypoxia. Unsupervised hierarchical clustering allowed the identification of 3 gene signatures related to CRD. One was common to CF and PAH, another specific to CF, and the final one was specific to PAH. With the common signature, we validated T-Cell Factor 7 (TCF-7) and Interleukin 7 Receptor (IL-7R), two genes related to T lymphocyte activation, as being under-expressed. We showed a strong impact of the hypoxia on modulation of TCF-7 and IL-7R expression in PBMCs from HC under hypoxia or PBMCs from CRD. In addition, we identified and validated genes upregulated in PAH or CF, including Lectin Galactoside-binding Soluble 3 and Toll Like Receptor 4, respectively. Systematic analysis of blood cell transcriptome in CRD patients identified common and specific signatures relevant to the systemic pathologies. TCF-7 and IL-7R were downregulated whatever the cause of CRD and this could play a role in the higher susceptibility to infection of these patients."	
30540547	human genomics	Physiological genomics	Identification of molecular signatures of cystic fibrosis disease status with plasma-based functional genomics.	"Although cystic fibrosis (CF) is attributed to dysfunction of a single gene, the relationships between the abnormal gene product and the development of inflammation and progression of lung disease are not fully understood, which limits our ability to predict an individual patient's clinical course and treatment response. To better understand CF progression, we characterized the molecular signatures of CF disease status with plasma-based functional genomics. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from healthy donors were cultured with plasma samples from CF patients ( n = 103) and unrelated, healthy controls ( n = 31). Gene expression levels were measured with an Affymetrix microarray (GeneChip Human Genome U133 Plus 2.0). Peripheral blood samples from a subset of the CF patients ( n = 40) were immunophenotyped by flow cytometry, and the data were compared with historical data for age-matched healthy controls ( n = 351). Plasma samples from another subset of CF patients ( n = 56) and healthy controls ( n = 16) were analyzed by multiplex enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for numerous cytokines and chemokines. Principal component analysis and hierarchical clustering of induced transcriptional data revealed disease-specific plasma-induced PBMC profiles. Among 1,094 differentially expressed probe sets, 51 genes were associated with pancreatic sufficient status, and 224 genes were associated with infection with Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The flow cytometry and ELISA data confirmed that various immune modulators are relevant contributors to the CF molecular signature. This study provides strong evidence for distinct molecular signatures among CF patients. An understanding of these molecular signatures may lead to unique molecular markers that will enable more personalized prognoses, individualized treatment plans, and rapid monitoring of treatment response."	
31924806	human genomics	Nature communications	Generation of mesenchyme free intestinal organoids from human induced pluripotent stem cells.	"Efficient generation of human induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC)-derived human intestinal organoids (HIOs) would facilitate the development of in vitro models for a variety of diseases that affect the gastrointestinal tract, such as inflammatory bowel disease or Cystic Fibrosis. Here, we report a directed differentiation protocol for the generation of mesenchyme-free HIOs that can be primed towards more colonic or proximal intestinal lineages in serum-free defined conditions. Using a CDX2 iPSC knock-in reporter line to track the emergence of hindgut progenitors, we follow the kinetics of CDX2 expression throughout directed differentiation, enabling the purification of intestinal progenitors and robust generation of mesenchyme-free organoids expressing characteristic markers of small intestinal or colonic epithelium. We employ HIOs generated in this way to measure CFTR function using cystic fibrosis patient-derived iPSC lines before and after correction of the CFTR mutation, demonstrating their future potential for disease modeling and therapeutic screening applications."	
28705942		The European respiratory journal	"{'i': 'Mycobacterium abscessus', '#text': 'in patients with cystic fibrosis: low impact of inter-human transmission in Italy.'}"		
24893876	human genomics	Physiological genomics	Oxidative stress modulates the expression of genes involved in cell survival in ΔF508 cystic fibrosis airway epithelial cells.	"Although cystic fibrosis (CF) pathophysiology is explained by a defect in CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) protein, the broad spectrum of disease severity is the consequence of environmental and genetic factors. Among them, oxidative stress has been demonstrated to play an important role in the evolution of this disease, with susceptibility to oxidative damage, decline of pulmonary function, and impaired lung antioxidant defense. Although oxidative stress has been implicated in the regulation of inflammation, its molecular outcomes in CF cells remain to be evaluated. To address the question, we compared the gene expression profile in NuLi-1 cells with wild-type CFTR and CuFi-1 cells homozygous for ΔF508 mutation cultured at air-liquid interface. We analyzed the transcriptomic response of these cell lines with microarray technology, under basal culture conditions and after 24 h oxidative stress induced by 15 μM 2,3-dimethoxy-1,4-naphtoquinone. In the absence of oxidative conditions, CuFi-1 gene profiling showed typical dysregulated inflammatory responses compared with NuLi-1. In the presence of oxidative conditions, the transcriptome of CuFi-1 cells reflected apoptotic transcript modulation. These results were confirmed in the CFBE41o- and corrCFBE41o- cell lines as well as in primary culture of human CF airway epithelial cells. Altogether, our data point to the influence of oxidative stress on cell survival functions in CF and identify several genes that could be implicated in the inflammation response observed in CF patients."	
31270321		Nature communications	An integrated genomic regulatory network of virulence-related transcriptional factors in Pseudomonas aeruginosa.	"The virulence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, a Gram-negative opportunistic pathogen, is regulated by many transcriptional factors (TFs) that control the expression of quorum sensing and protein secretion systems. Here, we report a genome-wide, network-based approach to dissect the crosstalk between 20 key virulence-related TFs. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled with high-throughput sequencing (ChIP-seq), as well as RNA-seq, we identify 1200 TF-bound genes and 4775 differentially expressed genes. We experimentally validate 347 of these genes as functional target genes, and describe the regulatory relationships of the 20 TFs with their targets in a network that we call 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa genomic regulatory network' (PAGnet). Analysis of the network led to the identification of novel functions for two TFs (ExsA and GacA) in quorum sensing and nitrogen metabolism. Furthermore, we present an online platform and R package based on PAGnet to facilitate updating and user-customised analyses."	
12076559	microbial genomics	"Lancet (London, England)"	An epidemic Burkholderia cepacia complex strain identified in soil.	"Life threatening infection with species of the Burkholderia cepacia complex frequently occurs as a result of cross infection among individuals with cystic fibrosis. Stringent infection control measures have decreased but not eliminated such infection in this vulnerable population, implying that non-patient reservoirs contribute to ongoing acquisition. However, strains common to both the natural environment and patients with cystic fibrosis have not yet been described. By use of various genotyping methods, we have identified from agricultural soil the B cepacia genomovar III strain that is most frequently recovered from cystic fibrosis patients in the mid-Atlantic region of the USA. This finding indicates that human pathogenic strains are not necessarily distinct from environmental strains, and might help explain ongoing human acquisition despite strict infection control measures."	
31109991	microbial genomics	Journal of bacteriology	"{'i': 'Stenotrophomonas maltophilia', '#text': 'Differential Gene Expression in Synthetic Cystic Fibrosis Sputum Reveals Shared and Cystic Fibrosis Strain-Specific Responses to the Sputum Environment.'}"	"is a Gram-negative opportunistic pathogen that can infect the lungs of people with cystic fibrosis (CF). The highly viscous mucus in the CF lung, expectorated as sputum, serves as the primary nutrient source for microbes colonizing this site and induces virulence-associated phenotypes and gene expression in several CF pathogens. Here, we characterized the transcriptional responses of three  strains during exposure to synthetic CF sputum medium (SCFM2) to gain insight into how this organism interacts with the host in the CF lung. These efforts led to the identification of 881 transcripts differentially expressed by all three strains, many of which reflect the metabolic pathways used by  in sputum, as well as altered stress responses. The latter correlated with increased resistance to peroxide exposure after pregrowth in SCFM2 for two of the strains. We also compared the SCFM2 transcriptomes of two  CF isolates to that of the acute infection strain,  K279a, allowing us to identify CF isolate-specific signatures in differential gene expression. The expression of genes from the accessory genomes was also differentially altered in response to SCFM2. Finally, a number of biofilm-associated genes were differentially induced in SCFM2, particularly in K279a, which corresponded to increased aggregation and biofilm formation in this strain relative to both CF strains. Collectively, this work details the response of  to an environment that mimics important aspects of the CF lung, identifying potential survival strategies and metabolic pathways used by  during infections. is an important infecting bacterium in the airways of people with cystic fibrosis (CF). However, compared to the other CF pathogens,  has been relatively understudied. The significance of our research is to provide insight into the global transcriptomic changes of  in response to a medium that was designed to mimic important aspects of the CF lung. This study elucidates the overall metabolic changes that occur when  encounters the CF lung and generates a road map of candidate genes to test using  and  models of CF."	
17724070	microbial genomics	Infection and immunity	In vivo evidence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa nutrient acquisition and pathogenesis in the lungs of cystic fibrosis patients.	"One of the hallmarks of Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients is very-high-cell-density (HCD) replication in the lung, allowing this bacterium to induce virulence controlled by the quorum-sensing systems. However, the nutrient sources sustaining HCD replication in this chronic infection are largely unknown. Here, we performed microarray studies of P. aeruginosa directly isolated from the lungs of CF patients to demonstrate its metabolic capability and virulence in vivo. In vivo microarray data, confirmed by real-time reverse transcription-PCR, indicated that the P. aeruginosa population expressed several genes for virulence, drug resistance, and utilization of multiple nutrient sources (lung surfactant lipids and amino acids) contributing to HCD replication. The most abundant lung surfactant lipid molecule, phosphatidylcholine (PC), induces key genes of P. aeruginosa pertinent to PC degradation in vitro as well as in vivo within the lungs of CF patients. The results support recent research indicating that P. aeruginosa exists in the lungs of CF patients as a diverse population with full virulence potential. The data also indicate that there is deregulation of several pathways, suggesting that there is in vivo evolution by deregulation of a large portion of the transcriptome during chronic infection in CF patients. To our knowledge, this is the first in vivo transcriptome analysis of P. aeruginosa in a natural infection in CF patients, and the results indicate several important aspects of P. aeruginosa pathogenesis, drug resistance, nutrient utilization, and general metabolism within the lungs of CF patients."	
31126900	human genomics	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Inactivation of CFTR by CRISPR/Cas9 alters transcriptional regulation of inflammatory pathways and other networks.	"Individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF) experience elevated inflammation in multiple organs, but whether this reflects an inherent feature of CF cells or is a consequence of a pro-inflammatory environment is not clear. Using CRISPR/Cas9-mediated mutagenesis of CFTR, 17 subclonal cell lines were generated from Caco-2 cells. Clonal lines with functional CFTR (CFTR) were compared to those without (CFTR) to directly address the role of CFTR in inflammatory gene regulation. All lines maintained CFTR mRNA production and formation of tight junctions. CFTR lines displayed short circuit currents in response to forskolin, while the CFTR lines did not. Baseline expression of cytokines IL6 and CXCL8 (IL8) was not different between the lines regardless of CFTR genotype. All lines responded to TNFα and IL1β by increasing IL6 and CXCL8 mRNA levels, but the CFTR lines produced more CXCL8 mRNA than the CFTR lines. Transcriptomes of 6 CFTR and 6 CFTR lines, before and after stimulation by TNFα, were compared for differential expression as a function of CFTR genotype. While some genes appeared to be differentially expressed simply because of CFTR's absence, others required stimulation for differences to be apparent. Together, these data suggest cells respond to CFTR's absence by modulating transcriptional networks, some of which are only apparent when cells are exposed to different environmental contexts, such as inflammation. With regards to inflammation, these data suggest a model in which CFTR's absence leads to a poised, pro-inflammatory state of cells that is only revealed by stimulation."	
32302349	human genomics	PloS one	Blood co-expression modules identify potential modifier genes of diabetes and lung function in cystic fibrosis.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a rare genetic disease that affects the respiratory and digestive systems. Lung disease is variable among CF patients and associated with the development of comorbidities and chronic infections. The rate of lung function deterioration depends not only on the type of mutations in CFTR, the disease-causing gene, but also on modifier genes. In the present study, we aimed to identify genes and pathways that (i) contribute to the pathogenesis of cystic fibrosis and (ii) modulate the associated comorbidities. We profiled blood samples in CF patients and healthy controls and analyzed RNA-seq data with Weighted Gene Correlation Network Analysis (WGCNA). Interestingly, lung function, body mass index, the presence of diabetes, and chronic P. aeruginosa infections correlated with four modules of co-expressed genes. Detailed inspection of networks and hub genes pointed to cell adhesion, leukocyte trafficking and production of reactive oxygen species as central mechanisms in lung function decline and cystic fibrosis-related diabetes. Of note, we showed that blood is an informative surrogate tissue to study the contribution of inflammation to lung disease and diabetes in CF patients. Finally, we provided evidence that WGCNA is useful to analyze-omic datasets in rare genetic diseases as patient cohorts are inevitably small."	
34107246	human genomics	Cell reports	A role for the ribosome-associated complex in activation of the IRE1 branch of UPR.	"The ubiquitous ribosome-associated complex (RAC) is a chaperone that spans ribosomes, making contacts near both the polypeptide exit tunnel and the decoding center, a position prime for sensing and coordinating translation and folding. Loss of RAC is known to result in growth defects and sensitization to translational and osmotic stresses. However, the physiological substrates of RAC and the mechanism(s) by which RAC is involved in responding to specific stresses in higher eukaryotes remain obscure. The data presented here uncover an essential function of mammalian RAC in the unfolded protein response (UPR). Knockdown of RAC sensitizes mammalian cells to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and selectively interferes with IRE1 branch activation. Higher-order oligomerization of the inositol-requiring enzyme 1α (IRE1α) kinase/endoribonuclease depends upon RAC. These results reveal a surveillance function for RAC in the UPR, as follows: modulating IRE1α clustering as required for endonuclease activation and splicing of the substrate Xbp1 mRNA."	
33095908	human genomics	The Journal of pathology	miRNA repertoires of cystic fibrosis ex vivo models highlight miR-181a and miR-101 that regulate WISP1 expression.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF), a genetic disorder, is characterized by chronic lung disease. Small non-coding RNAs are key regulators of gene expression and participate in various processes, which are dysregulated in CF; however, they remain poorly studied. Here, we determined the complete microRNAs (miRNAs) expression pattern in three CF ex vivo models. The miRNA profiles of air-liquid interface cultures of airway epithelia (bronchi, nasal cells, and nasal polyps) samples from patients with CF and non-CF controls were obtained by deep sequencing. Compared with non-CF controls, several miRNAs were deregulated in CF samples; for instance, miR-181a-5p and the miR-449 family were upregulated. Moreover, mature miRNAs often showed variations (i.e. isomiRs) relative to their reference sequence, such as miR-101, suggesting that miRNAs consist of heterogeneous repertoires of multiple isoforms with different effects on gene expression. Analysis of miR-181a-5p and miR-101-3p roles indicated that they regulate the expression of WISP1, a key component of cell proliferation/migration programs. We showed that miR-101 and miR-181a-5p participated in aberrant recapitulation of wound healing programs by controlling WISP1 mRNA and protein level. Our miRNA expression data bring new insights into CF physiopathology and define new potential therapeutic targets in CF. © 2020 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd."	
22972474	human genomics	Genes and immunity	Transcriptional signatures as a disease-specific and predictive inflammatory biomarker for type 1 diabetes.	"The complex milieu of inflammatory mediators associated with many diseases is often too dilute to directly measure in the periphery, necessitating development of more sensitive measurements suitable for mechanistic studies, earlier diagnosis, guiding therapeutic decisions and monitoring interventions. We previously demonstrated that plasma samples from recent-onset type 1 diabetes (RO T1D) patients induce a proinflammatory transcriptional signature in freshly drawn peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) relative to that of unrelated healthy controls (HC). Here, using cryopreserved PBMC, we analyzed larger RO T1D and HC cohorts, examined T1D progression in pre-onset samples, and compared the RO T1D signature to those associated with three disorders characterized by airway infection and inflammation. The RO T1D signature, consisting of interleukin-1 cytokine family members, chemokines involved in immunocyte chemotaxis, immune receptors and signaling molecules, was detected during early pre-diabetes and found to resolve post-onset. The signatures associated with cystic fibrosis patients chronically infected with Pseudomonas aeruginosa, patients with confirmed bacterial pneumonia, and subjects with H1N1 influenza all reflected immunological activation, yet each were distinct from one another and negatively correlated with that of T1D. This study highlights the remarkable capacity of cells to serve as biosensors capable of sensitively and comprehensively differentiating immunological states."	
26654095	microbial genomics	BMC genomics	High-throughput transcriptomics reveals common and strain-specific responses of human macrophages to infection with Mycobacterium abscessus Smooth and Rough variants.	"Mycobacterium abscessus (MAB) is an emerging pathogen causing pulmonary infections in those with inflammatory lung disorders, such as Cystic Fibrosis (CF), and is associated with the highest fatality rate among rapidly growing mycobacteria (RGM). Phenotypically, MAB manifests as either a Smooth (MAB-S) or a Rough (MAB-R) morphotype, which differ in their levels of cell wall glycopeptidolipids (GPLs) and in their pathogenicity in vivo. As one of the primary immune cells encountered by MAB, we sought to examine the early transcriptional events within macrophages, following infection with both MAB-S or MAB-R. We sampled the transcriptomes (mRNA and miRNA) of THP-1-derived macrophages infected with both MAB-R and MAB-S at 1, 4 and 24 h post-infection (hpi) using RNA-seq. A core set of 606 genes showed consistent expression profiles in response to both morphotypes, corresponding to the early transcriptional response to MAB. The core response is type I Interferon (IFN)-driven, involving the NF-κB and MAPK signaling pathways with concomitant pro-inflammatory cytokine production, and network analysis identified STAT1, EGR1, and SRC as key hub and bottleneck genes. MAB-S elicited a more robust transcriptional response at both the mRNA and miRNA levels, which was reflected in higher cytokine levels in culture supernatants. The transcriptional profiles of macrophages infected with both morphotypes were highly correlated, however, and a direct comparison identified few genes to distinguish them. Most of the induced miRNAs have previously been associated with mycobacterial infection and overall miRNA expression patterns were similarly highly correlated between the morphotypes. The report here details the first whole transcriptome analysis of the early macrophage response to MAB infection. The overall picture at the early stages of macrophage infection is similar to that of other mycobacteria, reflected in a core type I IFN and pro-inflammatory cytokine response. Large-scale transcriptional differences in the host response to the different MAB morphotypes are not evident in the early stages of infection, however the subset of genes with distinct expression profiles suggest potentially interesting differences in internal trafficking of MAB within macrophages."	
34355203	human genomics	STAR protocols	Differentiation of human pluripotent stem cells into functional airway basal stem cells.	"Airway basal cells play an essential role in the maintenance of the airway epithelium. Here, we provide a detailed directed differentiation protocol to generate ''induced basal cells (iBCs)'' from human pluripotent stem cells. iBCs recapitulate biological and functional properties of airway basal cells including mucociliary differentiation  or  in tracheal xenografts, facilitating the study of inherited and acquired diseases of the airway, as well as potential use in regenerative medicine. For complete details on the use and execution of this protocol, please refer to Hawkins et al. (2021)."	
35597096	human genomics	European journal of cell biology	"Cell function and identity revealed by comparative scRNA-seq analysis in human nasal, bronchial and epididymis epithelia."	"The evolutionary relationship of cells within tissues having a similar function but located in different anatomical sites is of considerable biological interest. The development of single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) protocols has greatly enhanced opportunities to address this topic. Here we focus on cells in the epithelium which lines two regions of the human respiratory tract and the male genital ducts to delineate the shared, differentiated functions of the different cell populations. Transcriptomic data were used to assess the gene expression profiles of human bronchial, nasal, and epididymal epithelium (HBE, HNE, and HEE). Bulk RNA-seq showed many shared genes expressed in cells from the nasal and bronchial epithelium and highlighted their divergence from the epididymal epithelium. ScRNA-seq in HBE and HNE cells demonstrated overlapping gene expression patterns within basal and secretory cell populations. Moreover, the distribution of cell types was altered in HNE cells derived from donors with cystic fibrosis (CF) when compared to cells from healthy donors. Next, the HBE and HNE datasets were merged and confirmed intersection of cell type gene expression profiles from the two sites. However, secretory and ciliated cells were the most abundant types in the HBE samples, while more basal cells were seen in the HNE populations. We then merged single-cell data from the epididymis to determine if overlapping functions of these cells corresponded to those in the airway. Of note, only the pulmonary ionocytes/epididymis clear cells showed a strongly conserved identity, which was confirmed by imputation in bulk RNA-seq datasets from the same cells."	
24115549	microbial genomics	Genome announcements	Draft Genome Sequence of a Stable Mucoid Strain of Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO581 with a mucA25 Mutation.	"A mutation in the mucA gene, which encodes a negative regulator of alginate production in Pseudomonas aeruginosa, is the main mechanism underlying the conversion to mucoidy in clinical isolates from patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). Here, we announce the draft genome sequence of the stable alginate-overproducing mucoid strain P. aeruginosa PAO581 with a mucA25 mutation, a derivative from the nonmucoid strains P. aeruginosa PAO381 and PAO1."	
37730992	human genomics	Nature	Transgenic ferret models define pulmonary ionocyte diversity and function.	"Speciation leads to adaptive changes in organ cellular physiology and creates challenges for studying rare cell-type functions that diverge between humans and mice. Rare cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR)-rich pulmonary ionocytes exist throughout the cartilaginous airways of humans, but limited presence and divergent biology in the proximal trachea of mice has prevented the use of traditional transgenic models to elucidate ionocyte functions in the airway. Here we describe the creation and use of conditional genetic ferret models to dissect pulmonary ionocyte biology and function by enabling ionocyte lineage tracing (FOXI1-Cre::ROSA-TG), ionocyte ablation (FOXI1-KO) and ionocyte-specific deletion of CFTR (FOXI1-Cre::CFTR). By comparing these models with cystic fibrosis ferrets, we demonstrate that ionocytes control airway surface liquid absorption, secretion, pH and mucus viscosity-leading to reduced airway surface liquid volume and impaired mucociliary clearance in cystic fibrosis, FOXI1-KO and FOXI1-Cre::CFTR ferrets. These processes are regulated by CFTR-dependent ionocyte transport of Cl and HCO. Single-cell transcriptomics and in vivo lineage tracing revealed three subtypes of pulmonary ionocytes and a FOXI1-lineage common rare cell progenitor for ionocytes, tuft cells and neuroendocrine cells during airway development. Thus, rare pulmonary ionocytes perform critical CFTR-dependent functions in the proximal airway that are hallmark features of cystic fibrosis airway disease. These studies provide a road map for using conditional genetics in the first non-rodent mammal to address gene function, cell biology and disease processes that have greater evolutionary conservation between humans and ferrets."	
25627690	human genomics	The Journal of biological chemistry	Paraoxonase 2 serves a proapopotic function in mouse and human cells in response to the Pseudomonas aeruginosa quorum-sensing molecule N-(3-Oxododecanoyl)-homoserine lactone.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa use quorum-sensing molecules, including N-(3-oxododecanoyl)-homoserine lactone (C12), for intercellular communication. C12 activated apoptosis in mouse embryo fibroblasts (MEF) from both wild type (WT) and Bax/Bak double knock-out mice (WT MEF and DKO MEF that were responsive to C12, DKOR MEF): nuclei fragmented; mitochondrial membrane potential (Δψmito) depolarized; Ca(2+) was released from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), increasing cytosolic [Ca(2+)] (Cacyto); and caspase 3/7 was activated. DKOR MEF had been isolated from a nonclonal pool of DKO MEF that were non-responsive to C12 (DKONR MEF). RNAseq analysis, quantitative PCR, and Western blots showed that WT and DKOR MEF both expressed genes associated with cancer, including paraoxonase 2 (PON2), whereas DKONR MEF expressed little PON2. Adenovirus-mediated expression of human PON2 in DKONR MEF rendered them responsive to C12: Δψmito depolarized, Cacyto increased, and caspase 3/7 activated. Human embryonic kidney 293T (HEK293T) cells expressed low levels of endogenous PON2, and these cells were also less responsive to C12. Overexpression of PON2, but not PON2-H114Q (no lactonase activity) in HEK293T cells caused them to become sensitive to C12. Because [C12] may reach high levels in biofilms in lungs of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients, PON2 lactonase activity may control Δψmito, Ca(2+) release from the ER, and apoptosis in CF airway epithelia. Coupled with previous data, these results also indicate that PON2 uses its lactonase activity to prevent Bax- and Bak-dependent apoptosis in response to common proapoptotic drugs like doxorubicin and staurosporine, but activates Bax- and Bak-independent apoptosis in response to C12."	
16150148	microbial genomics	BMC genomics	Microarray analysis of Pseudomonas aeruginosa reveals induction of pyocin genes in response to hydrogen peroxide.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa, a pathogen infecting those with cystic fibrosis, encounters toxicity from phagocyte-derived reactive oxidants including hydrogen peroxide during active infection. P. aeruginosa responds with adaptive and protective strategies against these toxic species to effectively infect humans. Despite advances in our understanding of the responses to oxidative stress in many specific cases, the connectivity between targeted protective genes and the rest of cell metabolism remains obscure. Herein, we performed a genome-wide transcriptome analysis of the cellular responses to hydrogen peroxide in order to determine a more complete picture of how oxidative stress-induced genes are related and regulated. Our data reinforce the previous conclusion that DNA repair proteins and catalases may be among the most vital antioxidant defense systems of P. aeruginosa. Our results also suggest that sublethal oxidative damage reduces active and/or facilitated transport and that intracellular iron might be a key factor for a relationship between oxidative stress and iron regulation. Perhaps most intriguingly, we revealed that the transcription of all F-, R-, and S-type pyocins was upregulated by oxidative stress and at the same time, a cell immunity protein (pyocin S2 immunity protein) was downregulated, possibly leading to self-killing activity. This finding proposes that pyocin production might be another novel defensive scheme against oxidative attack by host cells."	
20843337	mouse fecal 16S	BMC gastroenterology	Lubiprostone ameliorates the cystic fibrosis mouse intestinal phenotype.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is caused by mutations in the CFTR gene that impair the function of CFTR, a cAMP-regulated anion channel. In the small intestine loss of CFTR function creates a dehydrated, acidic luminal environment which is believed to cause an accumulation of mucus, a phenotype characteristic of CF. CF mice have small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, an altered innate immune response, and impaired intestinal transit. We investigated whether lubiprostone, which can activate the CLC2 Cl- channel, would improve the intestinal phenotype in CF mice. Cftr(tm1UNC) (CF) and wildtype (WT) littermate mice on the C57BL/6J background were used. Lubiprostone (10 μg/kg-day) was administered by gavage for two weeks. Mucus accumulation was estimated from crypt lumen widths in periodic acid-Schiff base, Alcian blue stained sections. Luminal bacterial load was measured by qPCR for the bacterial 16S gene. Gastric emptying and small intestinal transit in fasted mice were assessed using gavaged rhodamine dextran. Gene expression was evaluated by Affymetrix Mouse430 2.0 microarray and qRT-PCR. Crypt width in control CF mice was 700% that of WT mice (P < 0.001). Lubiprostone did not affect WT crypt width but, unexpectedly, increased CF crypt width 22% (P = 0.001). Lubiprostone increased bacterial load in WT mice to 490% of WT control levels (P = 0.008). Conversely, lubiprostone decreased bacterial overgrowth in CF mice by 60% (P = 0.005). Lubiprostone increased gastric emptying at 20 min postgavage in both WT (P < 0.001) and CF mice (P < 0.001). Lubiprostone enhanced small intestinal transit in WT mice (P = 0.024) but not in CF mice (P = 0.377). Among other innate immune markers, expression of mast cell genes was elevated 4-to 40-fold in the CF intestine as compared to WT, and lubiprostone treatment of CF mice decreased expression to WT control levels. These results indicate that lubiprostone has some benefits for the CF intestinal phenotype, especially on bacterial overgrowth and the innate immune response. The unexpected observation of increased mucus accumulation in the crypts of lubiprostone-treated CF mice suggests the possibility that lubiprostone increases mucus secretion."	
22461702	human genomics	"Journal of immunology (Baltimore, Md. : 1950)"	Intracellular insulin-like growth factor-1 induces Bcl-2 expression in airway epithelial cells.	"Bcl-2, a prosurvival protein, regulates programmed cell death during development and repair processes, and it can be oncogenic when cell proliferation is deregulated. The present study investigated what factors modulate Bcl-2 expression in airway epithelial cells and identified the pathways involved. Microarray analysis of mRNA from airway epithelial cells captured by laser microdissection showed that increased expression of IL-1β and insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) coincided with induced Bcl-2 expression compared with controls. Treatment of cultured airway epithelial cells with IL-1β and IGF-1 induced Bcl-2 expression by increasing Bcl-2 mRNA stability with no discernible changes in promoter activity. Silencing the IGF-1 expression using short hairpin RNA showed that intracellular IGF-1 (IC-IGF-1) was increasing Bcl-2 expression. Blocking epidermal growth factor receptor or IGF-1R activation also suppressed IC-IGF-1 and abolished the Bcl-2 induction. Induced expression and colocalization of IC-IGF-1 and Bcl-2 were observed in airway epithelial cells of mice exposed to LPS or cigarette smoke and of patients with cystic fibrosis and chronic bronchitis but not in the respective controls. These studies demonstrate that IC-IGF-1 induces Bcl-2 expression in epithelial cells via IGF-1R and epidermal growth factor receptor pathways, and targeting IC-IGF-1 could be beneficial to treat chronic airway diseases."	
35612285	mouse fecal 16S	mBio	Microbiome-Independent Effects of Antibiotics in a Murine Model of Nosocomial Infections.	"Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is one of the most common causes of hospital-acquired pneumonia. To better manage patients with MRSA pneumonia, we require a greater understanding of the host-pathogen interactions during infection. MRSA research focuses on highly virulent and cytotoxic strains, which demonstrate robust phenotypes in animal models of infection. However, nosocomial infections are often caused by hospital-acquired MRSA (HA-MRSA) isolates that exhibit low cytotoxicity and few or no phenotypes in mice, thereby confounding mechanistic studies of pathogenesis. Consequently, virulence pathways utilized by HA-MRSA in nosocomial pneumonia are largely unknown. Here, we report that conditioning mice with broad-spectrum antibiotics lowers the barrier to pneumonia, thereby transforming otherwise avirulent HA-MRSA isolates into lethal pathogens. HA-MRSA isolates are avirulent in gnotobiotic mice, mimicking results in conventional animals. Thus, the observed enhanced susceptibility to infection in antibiotic-treated mice is not due to depletion of the microbiota. More generally, we found that antibiotic conditioning leads to increased susceptibility to infection by diverse antimicrobial-resistant (AMR) pathogens of low virulence. Treatment with antibiotics leads to dehydration and malnutrition, suggesting a potential role for these clinically relevant and reducible hospital complications in susceptibility to pathogens. In sum, the model described here mitigates the impact of low virulence in immunocompetent mice, providing a convenient model to gain fundamental insight into the pathogenesis of nosocomial pathogens.  Antimicrobial-resistant (AMR) pathogens are responsible for over 2.8 million infections and over 35,000 deaths per year in the United States. To study these microbes, animal models that are susceptible to these pathogens are required. However, many of these pathogens exhibit low virulence in conventional mice, which has negatively impacted mechanistic studies. Here, we show that mice treated with antibiotics in their drinking water become exquisitely susceptible to low-virulence AMR pathogens. Surprisingly, the increased susceptibility was independent of the impact of antibiotics on the microbiome and seems to be due to an unintended consequence of antibiotic treatment: weight loss due to dehydration and caloric restriction. Unlike other models used to sensitize mice to low-virulence pathogens, our model does not reduce phagocyte numbers. Thus, here, we describe an immunocompetent mouse model to facilitate the identification of novel targets and accelerate the development of preventives and therapeutics to combat infections by AMR pathogens."	
31189969	human genomics	Scientific reports	Overexpression of miRNA-25-3p inhibits Notch1 signaling and TGF-β-induced collagen expression in hepatic stellate cells.	"During chronic liver injury hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), the principal source of extracellular matrix in the fibrotic liver, transdifferentiate into pro-fibrotic myofibroblast-like cells - a process potentially regulated by microRNAs (miRNAs). Recently, we found serum miRNA-25-3p (miR-25) levels were upregulated in children with Cystic Fibrosis (CF) without liver disease, compared to children with CF-associated liver disease and healthy individuals. Here we examine the role of miR-25 in HSC biology. MiR-25 was detected in the human HSC cell line LX-2 and in primary murine HSCs, and increased with culture-induced activation. Transient overexpression of miR-25 inhibited TGF-β and its type 1 receptor (TGFBR1) mRNA expression, TGF-β-induced Smad2 phosphorylation and subsequent collagen1α1 induction in LX-2 cells. Pull-down experiments with biotinylated miR-25 revealed Notch signaling (co-)activators ADAM-17 and FKBP14 as miR-25 targets in HSCs. NanoString analysis confirmed miR-25 regulation of Notch- and Wnt-signaling pathways. Expression of Notch signaling pathway components and endogenous Notch1 signaling was downregulated in miR-25 overexpressing LX-2 cells, as were components of Wnt signaling such as Wnt5a. We propose that miR-25 acts as a negative feedback anti-fibrotic control during HSC activation by reducing the reactivity of HSCs to TGF-β-induced collagen expression and modulating the cross-talk between Notch, Wnt and TGF-β signaling."	
35987275	human genomics	Journal of hepatology	Secretin alleviates biliary and liver injury during late-stage primary biliary cholangitis via restoration of secretory processes.	"Primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) is characterised by ductopenia, ductular reaction, impairment of anion exchanger 2 (AE2) and the 'bicarbonate umbrella'. Ductulo-canalicular junction (DCJ) derangement is hypothesised to promote PBC progression. The secretin (Sct)/secretin receptor (SR) axis regulates cystic fibrosis transmembrane receptor (CFTR) and AE2, thus promoting choleresis. We evaluated the role of Sct/SR signalling on biliary secretory processes and subsequent injury in a late-stage PBC mouse model and human samples. At 32 weeks of age, female and male wild-type and dominant-negative transforming growth factor beta receptor II (late-stage PBC model) mice were treated with Sct for 1 or 8 weeks. Bulk RNA-sequencing was performed in isolated cholangiocytes from mouse models. Biliary Sct/SR/CFTR/AE2 expression and bile bicarbonate levels were reduced in late-stage PBC mouse models and human samples. Sct treatment decreased bile duct loss, ductular reaction, inflammation, and fibrosis in late-stage PBC models. Sct reduced hepatic bile acid levels, modified bile acid composition, and restored the DCJ and 'bicarbonate umbrella'. RNA-sequencing identified that Sct promoted mature epithelial marker expression, specifically anterior grade protein 2 (Agr2). Late-stage PBC models and human samples exhibited reduced biliary mucin 1 levels, which were enhanced by Sct treatment. Loss of Sct/SR signalling in late-stage PBC results in a faulty 'bicarbonate umbrella' and reduced Agr2-mediated mucin production. Sct restores cholangiocyte secretory processes and DCJ formation through enhanced mature cholangiocyte phenotypes and bile duct growth. Sct treatment may be beneficial for individuals with late-stage PBC. Secretin (Sct) regulates biliary proliferation and bicarbonate secretion in cholangiocytes via its receptor, SR, and in mouse models and human samples of late-stage primary biliary cholangitis (PBC), the Sct/SR axis is blunted along with loss of the protective 'bicarbonate umbrella'. We found that both short- and long-term Sct treatment ameliorated ductular reaction, immune cell influx, and liver fibrosis in late-stage PBC mouse models. Importantly, Sct treatment promoted bicarbonate and mucin secretion and hepatic bile acid efflux, thus reducing cholestatic and toxic bile acid-associated injury in late-stage PBC mouse models. Our work perpetuates the hypothesis that PBC pathogenesis hinges on secretory defects, and restoration of secretory processes that promote the 'bicarbonate umbrella' may be important for amelioration of PBC-associated damage."	
27822512	human genomics	mSystems	"{'i': 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa', '#text': 'ADAGE-Based Integration of Publicly Available  Gene Expression Data with Denoising Autoencoders Illuminates Microbe-Host Interactions.'}"	"The increasing number of genome-wide assays of gene expression available from public databases presents opportunities for computational methods that facilitate hypothesis generation and biological interpretation of these data. We present an unsupervised machine learning approach, ADAGE (nalysis using enoising utoencoders of ene xpression), and apply it to the publicly available gene expression data compendium for . In this approach, the machine-learned ADAGE model contained 50 nodes which we predicted would correspond to gene expression patterns across the gene expression compendium. While no biological knowledge was used during model construction, cooperonic genes had similar weights across nodes, and genes with similar weights across nodes were significantly more likely to share KEGG pathways. By analyzing newly generated and previously published microarray and transcriptome sequencing data, the ADAGE model identified differences between strains, modeled the cellular response to low oxygen, and predicted the involvement of biological processes based on low-level gene expression differences. ADAGE compared favorably with traditional principal component analysis and independent component analysis approaches in its ability to extract validated patterns, and based on our analyses, we propose that these approaches differ in the types of patterns they preferentially identify. We provide the ADAGE model with analysis of all publicly available  GeneChip experiments and open source code for use with other species and settings. Extraction of consistent patterns across large-scale collections of genomic data using methods like ADAGE provides the opportunity to identify general principles and biologically important patterns in microbial biology. This approach will be particularly useful in less-well-studied microbial species.  The quantity and breadth of genome-scale data sets that examine RNA expression in diverse bacterial and eukaryotic species are increasing more rapidly than for curated knowledge. Our ADAGE method integrates such data without requiring gene function, gene pathway, or experiment labeling, making practical its application to any large gene expression compendium. We built a  ADAGE model from a diverse set of publicly available experiments without any prespecified biological knowledge, and this model was accurate and predictive. We provide ADAGE results for the complete  GeneChip compendium for use by researchers studying  and source code that facilitates ADAGE's application to other species and data types. : An author video summary of this article is available."	
37982452	human genomics	"Development (Cambridge, England)"	Aberrant centrosome biogenesis disrupts nephron and collecting duct progenitor growth and fate resulting in fibrocystic kidney disease.	"Mutations that disrupt centrosome biogenesis or function cause congenital kidney developmental defects and fibrocystic pathologies. Yet how centrosome dysfunction results in the kidney disease phenotypes remains unknown. Here, we examined the consequences of conditional knockout of the ciliopathy gene Cep120, essential for centrosome duplication, in the nephron and collecting duct progenitor niches of the mouse embryonic kidney. Cep120 loss led to reduced abundance of both cap mesenchyme and ureteric bud populations, due to a combination of delayed mitosis, increased apoptosis and premature differentiation of progenitor cells. These defects resulted in dysplastic kidneys at birth, which rapidly formed cysts, displayed increased interstitial fibrosis and decline in kidney function. RNA sequencing of embryonic and postnatal kidneys from Cep120-null mice identified changes in the pathways essential for development, fibrosis and cystogenesis. Our study defines the cellular and developmental defects caused by centrosome dysfunction during kidney morphogenesis and identifies new therapeutic targets for patients with renal centrosomopathies."	
31664087	human genomics	Scientific reports	Microarray profiling identifies extracellular circulating miRNAs dysregulated in cystic fibrosis.	"Extracellular circulating miRNAs (ECmiRNAs) play a crucial role in cell-to-cell communication and serve as non-invasive biomarkers in a wide range of diseases, but their abundance and functional relevance in cystic fibrosis (CF) remain poorly understood. In this study, we employed microarray technology to identify aberrantly expressed plasma ECmiRNAs in CF and elucidate the functional relevance of their targets. Overall, we captured several ECmiRNAs abundantly expressed in CF. Expression levels of 11 ECmiRNAs differed significantly between CF and healthy control (HC) samples (FDR < 0.05, log2 FC≥2). Among these, 10 were overexpressed while only hsa-miR-598-3p was underexpressed in CF. The overexpressed miRNAs included three let-7 family members (hsa-let-7b-5p, hsa-let-7c-5p and hsa-let-7d-5p), three 103/107 family members (hsa-mir-103a-3p; hsa-mir-103b; hsa-mir-107), hsa-miR-486-5p, and other miRNAs. Using in silico methods, we identified 2,505 validated targets of the 11 differentially expressed miRNAs. Hsa-let-7b-5p was the most important hub in the network analysis. The top-ranked validated targets were involved in miRNA biogenesis and gene expression, including AGO1, DICER1, HMGA1, and MYC. The top pathways influenced by all targets were primarily signal transduction pathways associated with CF, including PI3K/Akt-, Wnt/β catenin-, glucocorticoid receptor-, and mTor signaling pathways. Our results suggest ECmiRNAs may be clinically relevant in CF and warrant further study."	
26227600	microbial genomics	Genome announcements	"Draft Genome Sequences of Five Pseudomonas fluorescens Subclade I and II Strains, Isolated from Human Respiratory Samples."	"We report the draft genomes of five Pseudomonas fluorescens strains, isolated from clinical samples. Phylogenetic analysis places three in subclade I and two in subclade II of the P. fluorescens species complex. The average G+C content and genomic size are 63% and 7.1 Mbp (subclade I) and 59.6% and 6.14 Mbp (subclade II), respectively."	
19393329	microbial genomics	Pulmonary pharmacology & therapeutics	"A low concentration of azithromycin inhibits the mRNA expression of N-acyl homoserine lactone synthesis enzymes, upstream of lasI or rhlI, in Pseudomonas aeruginosa."	"Low-dose macrolides are effective therapy in patients with chronic lung infections, but the mechanisms of action are unclear. In this study, we performed DNA microarray analysis of Pseudomonas aeruginosa after treatment with a low concentration of azithromycin. We found that a sub-MIC of azithromycin didn't change mRNA expression of quorum-sensing related genes (lasI, lasR, rhlI, rhlR, vft, rsaL), but lowered expression of most N-acyl homoserine lactone (AHL) synthesis enzymes upstream of lasI and rhlI. We propose that small down regulation of these enzymes cumulatively resulted in a larger decrease of AHL production and inhibition of quorum-sensing in P. aeruginosa."	
34166230	human genomics	The Journal of clinical investigation	Inflammatory cytokines TNF-α and IL-17 enhance the efficacy of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator modulators.	"Without cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator-mediated (CFTR-mediated) HCO3- secretion, airway epithelia of newborns with cystic fibrosis (CF) produce an abnormally acidic airway surface liquid (ASL), and the decreased pH impairs respiratory host defenses. However, within a few months of birth, ASL pH increases to match that in non-CF airways. Although the physiological basis for the increase is unknown, this time course matches the development of inflammation in CF airways. To learn whether inflammation alters CF ASL pH, we treated CF epithelia with TNF-α and IL-17 (TNF-α+IL-17), 2 inflammatory cytokines that are elevated in CF airways. TNF-α+IL-17 markedly increased ASL pH by upregulating pendrin, an apical Cl-/HCO3- exchanger. Moreover, when CF epithelia were exposed to TNF-α+IL-17, clinically approved CFTR modulators further alkalinized ASL pH. As predicted by these results, in vivo data revealed a positive correlation between airway inflammation and CFTR modulator-induced improvement in lung function. These findings suggest that inflammation is a key regulator of HCO3- secretion in CF airways. Thus, they explain earlier observations that ASL pH increases after birth and indicate that, for similar levels of inflammation, the pH of CF ASL is abnormally acidic. These results also suggest that a non-cell-autonomous mechanism, airway inflammation, is an important determinant of the response to CFTR modulators."	
26701908	human genomics	eLife	Unravelling druggable signalling networks that control F508del-CFTR proteostasis.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is caused by mutations in CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). The most frequent mutation (F508del-CFTR) results in altered proteostasis, that is, in the misfolding and intracellular degradation of the protein. The F508del-CFTR proteostasis machinery and its homeostatic regulation are well studied, while the question whether 'classical' signalling pathways and phosphorylation cascades might control proteostasis remains barely explored. Here, we have unravelled signalling cascades acting selectively on the F508del-CFTR folding-trafficking defects by analysing the mechanisms of action of F508del-CFTR proteostasis regulator drugs through an approach based on transcriptional profiling followed by deconvolution of their gene signatures. Targeting multiple components of these signalling pathways resulted in potent and specific correction of F508del-CFTR proteostasis and in synergy with pharmacochaperones. These results provide new insights into the physiology of cellular proteostasis and a rational basis for developing effective pharmacological correctors of the F508del-CFTR defect."	
32684439	human genomics	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Ivacaftor or lumacaftor/ivacaftor treatment does not alter the core CF airway epithelial gene response to rhinovirus.	"Aberrant responses by the cystic fibrosis airway epithelium during viral infection may underly the clinical observations. Whether CFTR modulators affect antiviral responses by CF epithelia is presently unknown. We tested the hypothesis that treatment of CF epithelial cells with ivacaftor (Iva) or ivacaftor/lumacaftor (Iva/Lum) would improve control of rhinovirus infection. Nineteen CF epithelial cultures (10 homozygous for p.Phe508del as CFTR Class 2, 9 p.Phe508del/p.Gly551Asp as Class 3) were infected with rhinovirus 1B at multiplicity of infection 12 for 24 h. Culture RNA and supernatants were harvested to assess gene and protein expression respectively. RNA-seq analysis comparing rhinovirus infected cultures to control identified 796 and 629 differentially expressed genes for Class 2 and Class 3, respectively. This gene response was highly conserved when cells were treated with CFTR modulators and were predicted to be driven by the same interferon-pathway transcriptional regulators (IFNA, IFNL1, IFNG, IRF7, STAT1). Direct comparisons between treated and untreated infected cultures did not yield any differentially expressed genes for Class 3 and only 68 genes for Class 2. Changes were predominantly related to regulators of lipid metabolism and inflammation, aspects of epithelial biology known to be dysregulated in CF. In addition, CFTR modulators did not affect viral copy number, or levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines produced post-infection. Though long-term clinical data is not yet available, results presented here suggest that first generation CFTR modulators do not interfere with core airway epithelial responses to rhinovirus infection. Future work should investigate the latest triple modulation therapies."	
34680949	human genomics	Genes	"{'i': ['SCNN1B', 'CFTR'], '#text': 'Consistent Assignment of Risk and Benign Allele at rs2303153 in the CF Modifier Gene  in Three Independent F508del- Homozygous Patient Populations.'}"	"encodes for a chloride and bicarbonate channel expressed at the apical membrane of polarized epithelial cells. Transepithelial sodium transport mediated by the amiloride-sensitive sodium channel ENaC is thought to contribute to the manifestation of CF disease. Thus, ENaC is a therapeutic target in CF and a valid cystic fibrosis modifier gene. We have characterized  as a genetic modifier in the three independent patient cohorts of F508del- homozygotes. We could identify a regulatory element at  to the genomic segment rs168748-rs2303153-rs4968000 by fine-mapping (Pbest = 0.0177), consistently observing the risk allele rs2303153-C and the contrasting benign allele rs2303153-G in all three patient cohorts. Furthermore, our results show that expression levels of SCNN1B are associated with rs2303153 genotype in intestinal epithelia ( = 0.003). Our data confirm that the well-established biological role of SCNN1B can be recognized by an association study on informative endophenotypes in the rare disease cystic fibrosis and calls attention to reproducible results in association studies obtained from small, albeit carefully characterized patient populations."	
30445062	human genomics	The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology	Transcriptional and functional diversity of human macrophage repolarization.	"Macrophage plasticity allows cells to adopt different phenotypes, a property with important implications in disorders such as cystic fibrosis (CF) and asthma. We sought to examine the transcriptional and functional significance of macrophage repolarization from an M1 to an M2 phenotype and assess the role of a common human genetic disorder (CF) and a prototypical allergic disease (asthma) in this transformation. Monocyte-derived macrophages were collected from healthy subjects and patients with CF and polarized to an M2 state by using IL-4, IL-10, glucocorticoids, apoptotic PMNs, or azithromycin. We performed transcriptional profiling and pathway analysis for each stimulus. We assessed the ability of M2-repolarized macrophages to respond to LPS rechallenge and clear apoptotic neutrophils and used murine models to determine conserved functional responses to IL-4 and IL-10. We investigated whether M2 signatures were associated with alveolar macrophage phenotypes in asthmatic patients. We found that macrophages exhibit highly diverse responses to distinct M2-polarizing stimuli. Specifically, IL-10 activated proinflammatory pathways and abrogated LPS tolerance, allowing rapid restoration of LPS responsiveness. In contrast, IL-4 enhanced LPS tolerance, dampening proinflammatory responses after repeat LPS challenge. A common theme observed across all M2 stimuli was suppression of interferon-associated pathways. We found that CF macrophages had intact reparative and transcriptional responses, suggesting that macrophage contributions to CF-related lung disease are primarily shaped by their environment. Finally, we leveraged in vitro-derived signatures to show that allergen provocation induces distinct M2 state transcriptional patterns in alveolar macrophages. Our findings highlight the diversity of macrophage polarization, attribute functional consequences to different M2 stimuli, and provide a framework to phenotype macrophages in disease states."	
28510592	human genomics	PLoS biology	Alteration of protein function by a silent polymorphism linked to tRNA abundance.	"Synonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (sSNPs) are considered neutral for protein function, as by definition they exchange only codons, not amino acids. We identified an sSNP that modifies the local translation speed of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), leading to detrimental changes to protein stability and function. This sSNP introduces a codon pairing to a low-abundance tRNA that is particularly rare in human bronchial epithelia, but not in other human tissues, suggesting tissue-specific effects of this sSNP. Up-regulation of the tRNA cognate to the mutated codon counteracts the effects of the sSNP and rescues protein conformation and function. Our results highlight the wide-ranging impact of sSNPs, which invert the programmed local speed of mRNA translation and provide direct evidence for the central role of cellular tRNA levels in mediating the actions of sSNPs in a tissue-specific manner."	
24014664	microbial genomics	"Microbiology (Reading, England)"	Modulation of gene expression by Pseudomonas aeruginosa during chronic infection in the adult cystic fibrosis lung.	"Chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. P. aeruginosa isolates undergo significant transcriptomic and proteomic modulation as they adapt to the niche environment of the CF lung and the host defences. This study characterized the in vitro virulence of isogenic strain pairs of P. aeruginosa epidemic or frequent clonal complexes (FCCs) and non-epidemic or infrequent clonal complexes (IFCCs) that were collected 5-8 years apart from five chronically infected adult CF patients. Strains showed a significant decrease in virulence over the course of chronic infection using a Caenorhabditis elegans slow-killing assay and in phenotypic tests for important virulence factors. This decrease in virulence correlated with numerous differentially expressed genes such as oprG, lasB, rsaL and lecB. Microarray analysis identified a large genomic island deletion in the IFCC strain pair that included type three secretion system effector and fimbrial subunit genes. This study presents novel in vitro data to examine the transcriptomic profiles of sequentially collected P. aeruginosa from CF adults. The genes with virulence-related functions identified here present potential targets for new therapies and vaccines against FCCs and IFCCs."	
19222585	microbial genomics	FEMS microbiology letters	Gene expression characteristics of a cystic fibrosis epidemic strain of Pseudomonas aeruginosa during biofilm and planktonic growth.	"Epidemic Pseudomonas aeruginosa have been identified in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients worldwide. The Australian Epidemic Strain-2 (AES-2) infects up to 40% of patients in three eastern Australian CF clinics. To investigate whether AES-2 isolates from chronically infected CF adults differentially express well-conserved genes potentially associated with transmissibility, we compared the transcriptomes of planktonic and biofilm-grown AES-2, infrequent P. aeruginosa clones and the reference P. aeruginosa PAO1 using the Affymetrix PAO1 array. The most interesting findings emerged from comparisons of planktonic and biofilm AES-2. AES-2 biofilms upregulated Type III secretion system genes, but downregulated quorum-sensing (QS)-regulatory genes, except lasR, QS-regulated, oxidative-stress and iron-storage genes. QS-regulated and iron-storage genes were downregulated to a greater extent in AES-2 biofilms compared with infrequent clone and PAO1 biofilms, suggesting enhanced anaerobic respiration in AES-2. Chitinase and chitin-binding protein maintained high expression in AES-2 biofilms compared with infrequent clone and PAO1 biofilms. Planktonic AES-2 upregulated QS regulators and QS-regulated genes, iron acquisition and aerobic respiration genes, and had high expression of Group III Type IV pilA compared with low expression of Group I Type IV pilA in infrequent clones. Together, these properties may enhance long-term survival of AES-2 in CF lung and contribute to its transmissibility."	
25330091	microbial genomics	PLoS genetics	Coexistence and within-host evolution of diversified lineages of hypermutable Pseudomonas aeruginosa in long-term cystic fibrosis infections.	"The advent of high-throughput sequencing techniques has made it possible to follow the genomic evolution of pathogenic bacteria by comparing longitudinally collected bacteria sampled from human hosts. Such studies in the context of chronic airway infections by Pseudomonas aeruginosa in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients have indicated high bacterial population diversity. Such diversity may be driven by hypermutability resulting from DNA mismatch repair system (MRS) deficiency, a common trait evolved by P. aeruginosa strains in CF infections. No studies to date have utilized whole-genome sequencing to investigate within-host population diversity or long-term evolution of mutators in CF airways. We sequenced the genomes of 13 and 14 isolates of P. aeruginosa mutator populations from an Argentinian and a Danish CF patient, respectively. Our collection of isolates spanned 6 and 20 years of patient infection history, respectively. We sequenced 11 isolates from a single sample from each patient to allow in-depth analysis of population diversity. Each patient was infected by clonal populations of bacteria that were dominated by mutators. The in vivo mutation rate of the populations was ∼100 SNPs/year-∼40-fold higher than rates in normo-mutable populations. Comparison of the genomes of 11 isolates from the same sample showed extensive within-patient genomic diversification; the populations were composed of different sub-lineages that had coexisted for many years since the initial colonization of the patient. Analysis of the mutations identified genes that underwent convergent evolution across lineages and sub-lineages, suggesting that the genes were targeted by mutation to optimize pathogenic fitness. Parallel evolution was observed in reduction of overall catabolic capacity of the populations. These findings are useful for understanding the evolution of pathogen populations and identifying new targets for control of chronic infections."	
28922614	microbial genomics	Canadian journal of microbiology	MexXY efflux pump overexpression and aminoglycoside resistance in cystic fibrosis isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa from chronic infections.	"In this study, we analyzed 15 multidrug-resistant cystic fibrosis isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa from chronic lung infections for expression of 4 different multidrug efflux systems (MexAB-OprM, MexCD-OprJ, MexEF-OprN, and MexXY), using quantitative reverse transcriptase PCR. Overexpression of MexXY pump was observed in all of the isolates tested. Analysis of regulatory genes that control the expression of these 4 efflux pumps revealed a number of previously uncharacterized mutations. Our work shows that MexXY pump overexpression is common in cystic fibrosis isolates and could be contributing to their reduced aminoglycoside susceptibility. Further, we also identified novel mutations in the regulatory genes of the 4 abovementioned Resistance-Nodulation-Division superfamily pumps that may be involved in the overexpression of these pumps."	
24223838	pig genomics	PloS one	In search of epigenetic marks in testes and sperm cells of differentially fed boars.	"In search of transmittable epigenetic marks we investigated gene expression in testes and sperm cells of differentially fed F0 boars from a three generation pig feeding experiment that showed phenotypic differences in the F2 generation. RNA samples from 8 testes of boars that received either a diet enriched in methylating micronutrients or a control diet were analyzed by microarray analysis. We found moderate differential expression between testes of differentially fed boars with a high FDR of 0.82 indicating that most of the differentially expressed genes were false positives. Nevertheless, we performed a pathway analysis and found disparate pathway maps of development_A2B receptor: action via G-protein alpha s, cell adhesion_Tight junctions and cell adhesion_Endothelial cell contacts by junctional mechanisms which show inconclusive relation to epigenetic inheritance. Four RNA samples from sperm cells of these differentially fed boars were analyzed by RNA-Seq methodology. We found no differential gene expression in sperm cells of the two groups (adjusted P-value>0.05). Nevertheless, we also explored gene expression in sperm by a pathway analysis showing that genes were enriched for the pathway maps of bacterial infections in cystic fibrosis (CF) airways, glycolysis and gluconeogenesis p.3 and cell cycle_Initiation of mitosis. Again, these pathway maps are miscellaneous without an obvious relationship to epigenetic inheritance. It is concluded that the methylating micronutrients moderately if at all affects RNA expression in testes of differentially fed boars. Furthermore, gene expression in sperm cells is not significantly affected by extensive supplementation of methylating micronutrients and thus RNA molecules could not be established as the epigenetic mark in this feeding experiment."	
37877517	microbial genomics	Emerging infectious diseases	"Outbreak of Pandoraea commovens Infections among Non-Cystic Fibrosis Intensive Care Patients, Germany, 2019-2021."	"Pandoraea spp. are gram-negative, nonfermenting rods mainly known to infect patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). Outbreaks have been reported from several CF centers. We report a Pandoraea spp. outbreak comprising 24 non-CF patients at a large university hospital and a neighboring heart center in Germany during July 2019-December 2021. Common features in the patients were critical illness, invasive ventilation, antimicrobial pretreatment, and preceding surgery. Complicated and relapsing clinical courses were observed in cases with intraabdominal infections but not those with lower respiratory tract infections. Genomic analysis of 15 isolates identified Pandoraea commovens as the genetically most similar species and confirmed the clonality of the outbreak strain, designated P. commovens strain LB-19-202-79. The strain exhibited resistance to most antimicrobial drugs except ampicillin/sulbactam, imipenem, and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole. Our findings suggest Pandoraea spp. can spread among non-CF patients and underscore that clinicians and microbiologists should be vigilant in detecting and assessing unusual pathogens."	
35873457		Frontiers in genetics	"{'i': ['Pseudomonas aeruginosa', 'Staphylococcus aureus'], '#text': 'Unveiling Co-Infection in Cystic Fibrosis Airways: Transcriptomic Analysis of  and  Dual-Species Biofilms.'}"		
25590983	microbial genomics	American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine	"Divergent, coexisting Pseudomonas aeruginosa lineages in chronic cystic fibrosis lung infections."	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa, the predominant cause of chronic airway infections of patients with cystic fibrosis, exhibits extensive phenotypic diversity among isolates within and between sputum samples, but little is known about the underlying genetic diversity. To characterize the population genetic structure of transmissible P. aeruginosa Liverpool Epidemic Strain in chronic infections of nine patients with cystic fibrosis, and infer evolutionary processes associated with adaptation to the cystic fibrosis lung. We performed whole-genome sequencing of P. aeruginosa isolates and pooled populations and used comparative analyses of genome sequences including phylogenetic reconstructions and resolution of population structure from genome-wide allele frequencies. Genome sequences were obtained for 360 isolates from nine patients. Phylogenetic reconstruction of the ancestry of 40 individually sequenced isolates from one patient sputum sample revealed the coexistence of two genetically diverged, recombining lineages exchanging potentially adaptive mutations. Analysis of population samples for eight additional patients indicated coexisting lineages in six cases. Reconstruction of the ancestry of individually sequenced isolates from all patients indicated smaller genetic distances between than within patients in most cases. Our population-level analysis demonstrates that coexistence of distinct lineages of P. aeruginosa Liverpool Epidemic Strain within individuals is common. In several cases, coexisting lineages may have been present in the infecting inoculum or assembled through multiple transmissions. Divergent lineages can share mutations via homologous recombination, potentially aiding adaptation to the airway during chronic infection. The genetic diversity of this transmissible strain within infections, revealed by high-resolution genomics, has implications for patient segregation and therapeutic strategies."	
29532717	microbial genomics	Virulence	"Pyoverdine, a siderophore from Pseudomonas aeruginosa, translocates into C. elegans, removes iron, and activates a distinct host response."	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa, a re-emerging, opportunistic human pathogen, encodes a variety of virulence determinants. Pyoverdine, a siderophore produced by this bacterium, is essential for pathogenesis in mammalian infections. This observation is generally attributed to its roles in acquiring iron and/or regulating other virulence factors. Here we report that pyoverdine translocates into the host, where it binds and extracts iron. Pyoverdine-mediated iron extraction damages host mitochondria, disrupting their function and triggering mitochondrial turnover via autophagy. The host detects this damage via a conserved mitochondrial surveillance pathway mediated by the ESRE network. Our findings illuminate the pathogenic mechanisms of pyoverdine and highlight the importance of this bacterial product in host-pathogen interactions."	
33471607	human genomics	American journal of physiology. Lung cellular and molecular physiology	CF monocyte-derived macrophages have an attenuated response to extracellular vesicles secreted by airway epithelial cells.	"Mutations in  alter macrophage responses, for example, by reducing their ability to phagocytose and kill bacteria. Altered macrophage responses may facilitate bacterial infection and inflammation in the lungs, contributing to morbidity and mortality in cystic fibrosis (CF). Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are secreted by multiple cell types in the lungs and participate in the host immune response to bacterial infection, but the effect of EVs secreted by CF airway epithelial cells (AEC) on CF macrophages is unknown. This report examines the effect of EVs secreted by primary AEC on monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM) and contrasts responses of CF and wild type (WT) MDM. We found that EVs generally increase pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion and expression of innate immune genes in MDM, especially when EVs are derived from AEC exposed to  and that this effect is attenuated in CF MDM. Specifically, EVs secreted by  exposed AEC (EV-PA) induced immune response genes and increased secretion of proinflammatory cytokines, chemoattractants, and chemokines involved in tissue repair by WT MDM, but these effects were less robust in CF MDM. We attribute attenuated responses by CF MDM to differences between CF and WT macrophages because EVs secreted by CF AEC or WT AEC elicited similar responses in CF MDM. Our findings demonstrate the importance of AEC EVs in macrophage responses and show that the Phe508del mutation in CFTR attenuates the innate immune response of MDM to EVs."	
25439320	microbial genomics	International journal of medical microbiology : IJMM	Transcriptional adaptations during long-term persistence of Staphylococcus aureus in the airways of a cystic fibrosis patient.	"The lungs of Cystic fibrosis (CF) patients are often colonized and/or infected by Staphylococcus aureus for years, mostly by one predominant clone. For long-term survival in this environment, S. aureus needs to adapt during its interactions with host factors, antibiotics, and other pathogens. Here, we study long-term transcriptional as well as genomic adaptations of an isogenic pair of S. aureus isolates from a single patient using RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). Mimicking in vivo conditions, we cultivated the S. aureus isolates using artificial sputum medium before harvesting RNA for subsequent analysis. We confirmed our RNA-Seq data using quantitative real-time (qRT)-PCR and additionally investigated intermediate isolates from the same patient representing in total 13.2 years of persistence in the CF airways. Comparative RNA-Seq analysis of the first and the last (""late"") isolate revealed significant differences in the late isolate after 13.2 years of persistence. Of the 2545 genes expressed in both isolates that were cultivated aerobically, 256 genes were up- and 161 were down-regulated with a minimum 2-fold change (2f). Focusing on 25 highly (≥8f) up- (n=9) or down- (n=16) regulated genes, we identified several genes encoding for virulence factors involved in immune evasion, bacterial spread or secretion (e.g. spa, sak, and esxA). Moreover, these genes displayed similar expression trends under aerobic, microaerophilic and anaerobic conditions. Further qRT-PCR-experiments of highly up- or down-regulated genes within intermediate S. aureus isolates resulted in different gene expression patterns over the years. Using sequencing analysis of the differently expressed genes and their upstream regions in the late S. aureus isolate resulted in only few genomic alterations. Comparative transcriptomic analysis revealed adaptive changes affecting mainly genes involved in host-pathogen interaction. Although the underlying mechanisms were not known, our results suggest adaptive processes beyond genomic mutations triggered by local factors rather than by activation of global regulators."	
18337718	mixed metagenomics	Nature	Functional metagenomic profiling of nine biomes.	"Microbial activities shape the biogeochemistry of the planet and macroorganism health. Determining the metabolic processes performed by microbes is important both for understanding and for manipulating ecosystems (for example, disruption of key processes that lead to disease, conservation of environmental services, and so on). Describing microbial function is hampered by the inability to culture most microbes and by high levels of genomic plasticity. Metagenomic approaches analyse microbial communities to determine the metabolic processes that are important for growth and survival in any given environment. Here we conduct a metagenomic comparison of almost 15 million sequences from 45 distinct microbiomes and, for the first time, 42 distinct viromes and show that there are strongly discriminatory metabolic profiles across environments. Most of the functional diversity was maintained in all of the communities, but the relative occurrence of metabolisms varied, and the differences between metagenomes predicted the biogeochemical conditions of each environment. The magnitude of the microbial metabolic capabilities encoded by the viromes was extensive, suggesting that they serve as a repository for storing and sharing genes among their microbial hosts and influence global evolutionary and metabolic processes."	
25759377	human genomics	Physiological genomics	Expression of three topologically distinct membrane proteins elicits unique stress response pathways in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	"Misfolded membrane proteins are retained in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and are subject to ER-associated degradation, which clears the secretory pathway of potentially toxic species. While the transcriptional response to environmental stressors has been extensively studied, limited data exist describing the cellular response to misfolded membrane proteins. To this end, we expressed and then compared the transcriptional profiles elicited by the synthesis of three ER retained, misfolded ion channels: The α-subunit of the epithelial sodium channel, ENaC, the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator, CFTR, and an inwardly rectifying potassium channel, Kir2.1, which vary in their mass, membrane topologies, and quaternary structures. To examine transcriptional profiles in a null background, the proteins were expressed in yeast, which was previously used to examine the degradation requirements for each substrate. Surprisingly, the proteins failed to induce a canonical unfolded protein response or heat shock response, although messages encoding several cytosolic and ER lumenal protein folding factors rose when αENaC or CFTR was expressed. In contrast, the levels of these genes were unaltered by Kir2.1 expression; instead, the yeast iron regulon was activated. Nevertheless, a significant number of genes that respond to various environmental stressors were upregulated by all three substrates, and compared with previous microarray data we deduced the existence of a group of genes that reflect a novel misfolded membrane protein response. These data indicate that aberrant proteins in the ER elicit profound yet unique cellular responses."	
25635025	microbial genomics	Genome announcements	Draft Genome Sequences of Seven Pseudomonas fluorescens Subclade III Strains Isolated from Cystic Fibrosis Patients.	"We report here the first draft genome sequences of Pseudomonas fluorescens strains that have been isolated from humans. The seven assembled draft genomes contained an average of 60.1% G+C content, were an average genomic size of 6.3 Mbp, and mapped by multilocus sequence analysis to subclade III."	
21835880	microbial genomics	"Microbiology (Reading, England)"	"Mucoid morphotype variation of Burkholderia multivorans during chronic cystic fibrosis lung infection is correlated with changes in metabolism, motility, biofilm formation and virulence."	"Burkholderia cepacia complex (Bcc) bacteria are opportunistic pathogens infecting hosts such as cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. Long-term Bcc infection of CF patients' airways has been associated with emergence of phenotypic variation. Here we studied two Burkholderia multivorans clonal isolates displaying different morphotypes from a chronically infected CF patient to evaluate trait development during lung infection. Expression profiling of mucoid D2095 and non-mucoid D2214 isolates revealed decreased expression of genes encoding products related to virulence-associated traits and metabolism in D2214. Furthermore, D2214 showed no exopolysaccharide production, lower motility and chemotaxis, and more biofilm formation, particularly under microaerophilic conditions, than the clonal mucoid isolate D2095. When Galleria mellonella was used as acute infection model, D2214 at a cell number of approximately 7 × 10⁶ c.f.u. caused a higher survival rate than D2095, although 6 days post-infection most of the larvae were dead. Infection with the same number of cells by mucoid D2095 caused larval death by day 4. The decreased expression of genes involved in carbon and nitrogen metabolism may reflect lower metabolic needs of D2214 caused by lack of exopolysaccharide, but also by the attenuation of pathways not required for survival. As a result, D2214 showed higher survival than D2095 in minimal medium for 28 days under aerobic conditions. Overall, adaptation during Bcc chronic lung infections gave rise to genotypic and phenotypic variation among isolates, contributing to their fitness while maintaining their capacity for survival in this opportunistic human niche."	
20856824	microbial genomics	mBio	"Parallel evolution in Pseudomonas aeruginosa over 39,000 generations in vivo."	"The Gram-negative bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a common cause of chronic airway infections in individuals with the heritable disease cystic fibrosis (CF). After prolonged colonization of the CF lung, P. aeruginosa becomes highly resistant to host clearance and antibiotic treatment; therefore, understanding how this bacterium evolves during chronic infection is important for identifying beneficial adaptations that could be targeted therapeutically. To identify potential adaptive traits of P. aeruginosa during chronic infection, we carried out global transcriptomic profiling of chronological clonal isolates obtained from 3 individuals with CF. Isolates were collected sequentially over periods ranging from 3 months to 8 years, representing up to 39,000 in vivo generations. We identified 24 genes that were commonly regulated by all 3 P. aeruginosa lineages, including several genes encoding traits previously shown to be important for in vivo growth. Our results reveal that parallel evolution occurs in the CF lung and that at least a proportion of the traits identified are beneficial for P. aeruginosa chronic colonization of the CF lung."	
36930643	microbial genomics	Cell reports	Iron bioavailability regulates Pseudomonas aeruginosa interspecies interactions through type VI secretion expression.	"The cystic fibrosis (CF) respiratory tract harbors pathogenic bacteria that cause life-threatening chronic infections. Of these, Pseudomonas aeruginosa becomes increasingly dominant with age and is associated with worsening lung function and declining microbial diversity. We aimed to understand why P. aeruginosa dominates over other pathogens to cause worsening disease. Here, we show that P. aeruginosa responds to dynamic changes in iron concentration, often associated with viral infection and pulmonary exacerbations, to become more competitive via expression of the TseT toxic effector. However, this behavior can be therapeutically targeted using the iron chelator deferiprone to block TseT expression and competition. Overall, we find that iron concentration and TseT expression significantly correlate with microbial diversity in the respiratory tract of people with CF. These findings improve our understanding of how P. aeruginosa becomes increasingly dominant with age in people with CF and provide a therapeutically targetable pathway to help prevent this shift."	
35635440	human genomics	eLife	"{'sub': '3', 'sup': '-', '#text': 'Inhibition of the sodium-dependent HCO transporter SLC4A4, produces a cystic fibrosis-like airway disease phenotype.'}"	"Bicarbonate secretion is a fundamental process involved in maintaining acid-base homeostasis. Disruption of bicarbonate entry into airway lumen, as has been observed in cystic fibrosis, produces several defects in lung function due to thick mucus accumulation. Bicarbonate is critical for correct mucin deployment and there is increasing interest in understanding its role in airway physiology, particularly in the initiation of lung disease in children affected by cystic fibrosis, in the absence of detectable bacterial infection. The current model of anion secretion in mammalian airways consists of CFTR and TMEM16A as apical anion exit channels, with limited capacity for bicarbonate transport compared to chloride. However, both channels can couple to SLC26A4 anion exchanger to maximise bicarbonate secretion. Nevertheless, current models lack any details about the identity of the basolateral protein(s) responsible for bicarbonate uptake into airway epithelial cells. We report herein that the electrogenic, sodium-dependent, bicarbonate cotransporter, SLC4A4, is expressed in the basolateral membrane of human and mouse airways, and that it's pharmacological inhibition or genetic silencing reduces bicarbonate secretion. In fully differentiated primary human airway cells cultures, SLC4A4 inhibition induced an acidification of the airways surface liquid and markedly reduced the capacity of cells to recover from an acid load. Studies in the -null mice revealed a previously unreported lung phenotype, characterized by mucus accumulation and reduced mucociliary clearance. Collectively, our results demonstrate that the reduction of SLC4A4 function induced a CF-like phenotype, even when chloride secretion remained intact, highlighting the important role SLC4A4 plays in bicarbonate secretion and mammalian airway function."	
34451442	microbial genomics	"Pathogens (Basel, Switzerland)"	"{'i': ['Achromobacter', 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa'], '#text': 'Adaptive Interactions of  spp. with  in Cystic Fibrosis Chronic Lung Co-Infection.'}"	"In the lungs of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF), the main pathogen  is often co-isolated with other microbes, likely engaging in inter-species interactions. In the case of chronic co-infections, this cohabitation can last for a long time and evolve over time, potentially contributing to the clinical outcome. Interactions involving the emerging pathogens  spp. have only rarely been studied, reporting inhibition of  biofilm formation. To evaluate the possible evolution of such interplay, we assessed the ability of  spp. isolates to affect the biofilm formation of co-isolated  strains during long-term chronic co-infections. We observed both competition and cohabitation. An  sp. isolate secreted exoproducts interfering with the adhesion ability of a co-isolated  strain and affected its biofilm formation. Conversely, a clonal  sp. strain later isolated from the same patient, as well as two longitudinal strains from another patient, did not show similar competitive behavior against its  co-isolates. Genetic variants supporting the higher virulence of the competitive  sp. isolate were found in its genome. Our results confirm that both inter-species competition and cohabitation are represented during chronic co-infections in CF airways, and evolution of these interplays can happen even at the late stages of chronic infection."	
17615178	human genomics	American journal of physiology. Gastrointestinal and liver physiology	Intestinal phenotype of variable-weight cystic fibrosis knockout mice.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) transmembrane conductance regulator (Cftr) knockout mice present the clinical features of low body weight and intestinal disease permitting an assessment of the interrelatedness of these phenotypes in a controlled environment. To identify intestinal alterations that are affected by body weight in CF mice, the histological phenotypes of crypt-villus axis height, goblet cell hyperplasia, mast cell infiltrate, crypt cell proliferation, and apoptosis were measured in a population of 12-wk-old (C57BL/6 x BALB/cJ) F2 Cftr(tm1UNC) and non-CF mice presenting a range of body weight. In addition, cardiac blood samples were assessed, and gene expression profiling of the ileum was completed. Crypt-villus axis height decreased with increasing body weight in CF but not control mice. Intestinal crypts from CF mice had fewer apoptotic cells, per unit length, than did non-CF mice, and normalized cell proliferation was similar to control levels. Goblet cell hyperplasia and mast cell infiltration were increased in the CF intestine and identified to be independent of body weight. Blood triglyceride levels were found to be significantly lower in CF mice than in control mice but were not dependent on CF mouse weight. By expression profiling, genes of DNA replication and lipid metabolism were among those altered in CF mice relative to non-CF controls, and no differences in gene expression were measured between samples from CF mice in the 25th and 75th percentile for weight. In this CF mouse model, crypt elongation, due to an expanded proliferative zone and decreased apoptosis, was identified to be dependent on body weight."	
30069044	human genomics	Nature	A revised airway epithelial hierarchy includes CFTR-expressing ionocytes.	"The airways of the lung are the primary sites of disease in asthma and cystic fibrosis. Here we study the cellular composition and hierarchy of the mouse tracheal epithelium by single-cell RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq) and in vivo lineage tracing. We identify a rare cell type, the Foxi1 pulmonary ionocyte; functional variations in club cells based on their location; a distinct cell type in high turnover squamous epithelial structures that we term 'hillocks'; and disease-relevant subsets of tuft and goblet cells. We developed 'pulse-seq', combining scRNA-seq and lineage tracing, to show that tuft, neuroendocrine and ionocyte cells are continually and directly replenished by basal progenitor cells. Ionocytes are the major source of transcripts of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator in both mouse (Cftr) and human (CFTR). Knockout of Foxi1 in mouse ionocytes causes loss of Cftr expression and disrupts airway fluid and mucus physiology, phenotypes that are characteristic of cystic fibrosis. By associating cell-type-specific expression programs with key disease genes, we establish a new cellular narrative for airways disease."	
16614460	human genomics	Physiological genomics	Strain-dependent pulmonary gene expression profiles of a cystic fibrosis mouse model.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) lung disease severity is influenced by unknown genetic factors apart from the disease causative gene, cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). Previous studies have shown the C57BL/6J congenic Cftr(-/-) (B6 CF) mouse to develop a fibrotic lung disease compared with both CF mice of the BALB/c background and wild-type animals. In this report, gene expression profiling with microarrays was used to identify genes differentially expressed in the lungs of B6 and BALB CF mice compared with non-CF littermates. Seven hundred two genes or expressed sequence tags (ESTs) were identified to be differentially expressed between the B6 CF and non-CF control lungs (P < 0.05), and, by Gene Ontology classification, the B6 CF response included the cell proliferation categories of DNA metabolism and mitosis. In the response of BALB mice to nonfunctional Cftr, 943 genes/ESTs were differentially expressed compared with controls. The biological processes of apoptosis and T and B cell proliferation were prominent in the gene list of the BALB CF strain. In support of this strain difference, increased T lymphocyte infiltration was evident in the lungs of BALB CF mice, through immunohistochemical staining, compared with the lungs from both B6 CF and non-CF control mice. Four hundred forty-four genes/ESTs were differentially expressed between B6 CF and BALB CF mice (P < 0.05, fold > 2), including 56 that map to previously identified linkage intervals. These results suggest that the variable severity of CF lung disease in this mouse model is controlled by multiple genetic factors, including those of an immune response."	
17493132	microbial genomics	Molecular microbiology	Growth phenotypes of Pseudomonas aeruginosa lasR mutants adapted to the airways of cystic fibrosis patients.	"The opportunistic pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa undergoes genetic change during chronic airway infection of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. One common change is a mutation inactivating lasR, which encodes a transcriptional regulator that responds to a homoserine lactone signal to activate expression of acute virulence factors. Colonies of lasR mutants visibly accumulated the iridescent intercellular signal 4-hydroxy-2-heptylquinoline. Using this colony phenotype, we identified P. aeruginosa lasR mutants that emerged in the airway of a CF patient early during chronic infection, and during growth in the laboratory on a rich medium. The lasR loss-of-function mutations in these strains conferred a growth advantage with particular carbon and nitrogen sources, including amino acids, in part due to increased expression of the catabolic pathway regulator CbrB. This growth phenotype could contribute to selection of lasR mutants both on rich medium and within the CF airway, supporting a key role for bacterial metabolic adaptation during chronic infection. Inactivation of lasR also resulted in increased beta-lactamase activity that increased tolerance to ceftazidime, a widely used beta-lactam antibiotic. Loss of LasR function may represent a marker of an early stage in chronic infection of the CF airway with clinical implications for antibiotic resistance and disease progression."	
32544950	microbial genomics	Clinical infectious diseases : an official publication of the Infectious Diseases Society of America	Pseudomonas aeruginosa Strain-sharing in Early Infection Among Children With Cystic Fibrosis.	"We previously identified Pseudomonas aeruginosa isolates with characteristics typical of chronic infection in some early infections in children with cystic fibrosis (CF), suggesting that these isolates may have been acquired from other patients. Our objective was to define the extent of P. aeruginosa strain-sharing in early CF infections and its impact on antibiotic eradication treatment failure rates. We performed whole genome sequencing on isolates from early pediatric CF pulmonary infections and from the following comparator groups in the same hospital: chronic CF infection, sink drains, sterile site infections, and asymptomatic carriage. Univariate logistic regression was used to assess factors associated with treatment failure. In this retrospective, observational study, 1029 isolates were sequenced. The CF clones strain B and clone C were present. In 70 CF patients with early infections, 14 shared strains infected 29 (41%) patients over 5 years; 16% (n = 14) of infections had mixed strains. In the 70 children, approximately one-third of shared-strain infections were likely due to patient-to-patient transmission. Mixed-strain infections were associated with strain-sharing (odds ratio, 8.50; 95% confidence interval, 2.2-33.4; P = .002). Strain-sharing was not associated with antibiotic eradication treatment failure; however, nosocomial strain transmission was associated with establishment of chronic infection in a CF sibling pair. Although early P. aeruginosa CF infection is thought to reflect acquisition of diverse strains from community reservoirs, we identified frequent early CF strain-sharing that was associated with the presence of mixed strains and instances of possible patient-to-patient transmission."	
23908295	microbial genomics	Genome announcements	Complete Genome Sequence of Persistent Cystic Fibrosis Isolate Pseudomonas aeruginosa Strain RP73.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa can establish lifelong chronic airway infections in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. However, the genetic features associated with long-term persistence in the lung are not understood. We sequenced the genome of P. aeruginosa strain RP73, which was isolated after 16.9 years of chronic lung infection in a CF patient."	
17675390	microbial genomics	Journal of bacteriology	Transcriptomic analysis of the sulfate starvation response of Pseudomonas aeruginosa.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic pathogen that causes a number of infections in humans, but is best known for its association with cystic fibrosis. It is able to use a wide range of sulfur compounds as sources of sulfur for growth. Gene expression in response to changes in sulfur supply was studied in P. aeruginosa E601, a cystic fibrosis isolate that displays mucin sulfatase activity, and in P. aeruginosa PAO1. A large family of genes was found to be upregulated by sulfate limitation in both isolates, encoding sulfatases and sulfonatases, transport systems, oxidative stress proteins, and a sulfate-regulated TonB/ExbBD complex. These genes were localized in five distinct islands on the genome and encoded proteins with a significantly reduced content of cysteine and methionine. Growth of P. aeruginosa E601 with mucin as the sulfur source led not only to a sulfate starvation response but also to induction of genes involved with type III secretion systems."	
22988113	microbial genomics	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Strain-dependent diversity in the Pseudomonas aeruginosa quorum-sensing regulon.	"Quorum sensing allows bacteria to sense and respond to changes in population density. Acyl-homoserine lactones serve as quorum-sensing signals for many Proteobacteria, and acyl-homoserine lactone signaling is known to control cooperative activities. Quorum-controlled activities vary from one species to another. Quorum-sensing controls a constellation of genes in the opportunistic pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa, which thrives in a number of habitats ranging from soil and water to animal hosts. We hypothesized that there would be significant variation in quorum-sensing regulons among strains of P. aeruginosa isolated from different habitats and that differences in the quorum-sensing regulons might reveal insights about the ecology of P. aeruginosa. As a test of our hypothesis we used RNA-seq to identify quorum-controlled genes in seven P. aeruginosa isolates of diverse origins. Although our approach certainly overlooks some quorum-sensing-regulated genes we found a shared set of genes, i.e., a core quorum-controlled gene set, and we identified distinct, strain-variable sets of quorum-controlled genes, i.e., accessory genes. Some quorum-controlled genes in some strains were not present in the genomes of other strains. We detected a correlation between traits encoded by some genes in the strain-variable subsets of the quorum regulons and the ecology of the isolates. These findings indicate a role for quorum sensing in extension of the range of habitats in which a species can thrive. This study also provides a framework for understanding the molecular mechanisms by which quorum-sensing systems operate, the evolutionary pressures by which they are maintained, and their importance in disparate ecological contexts."	
37269165	human genomics	Physiological reports	"{'sup': '-', '#text': 'Cellular heterogeneity in the 16HBE14o airway epithelial line impacts biological readouts.'}"	"The airway epithelial cell line, 16HBE14o , is an important cell model for studying airway disease. 16HBE14o cells were originally generated from primary human bronchial epithelial cells by SV40-mediated immortalization, a process that is associated with genomic instability through long-term culture. Here, we explore the heterogeneity of these cells, with respect to expression of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) transcript and protein. We isolate clones of 16HBE14o with stably higher and lower levels of CFTR in comparison to bulk 16HBE14o , designated CFTR and CFTR . Detailed characterization of the CFTR locus in these clones by ATAC-seq and 4C-seq showed open chromatin profiles and higher order chromatin structure that correlate with CFTR expression levels. Transcriptomic profiling of CFTR and CFTR cells showed that the CFTR cells had an elevated inflammatory/innate immune response phenotype. These results encourage caution in interpreting functional data from clonal lines of 16HBE14o cells, generated after genomic or other manipulations."	
37064874	human genomics	Theranostics	"Single-cell profiling of GP2-enriched pancreatic progenitors to simultaneously create acinar, ductal, and endocrine organoids."	"Pancreatic lineage specification follows the formation of tripotent pancreatic progenitors (PPs). Current protocols rebuilding PPs  have an endocrine lineage bias and are mostly based on PDX1/NKX6-1 coexpression neglecting other markers decisive for PP heterogeneity and lineage potential. However, true tripotent PPs are of utmost interest to study also exocrine disorders such as pancreatic cancer and to simultaneously generate all three pancreatic lineages from the same ancestor.  Here, we performed a comprehensive compound testing to advance the generation of multipotent progenitors, which were further characterized for their trilineage potential  and . The heterogeneity and cell-cell communication across the PP subpopulations were analyzed via single-cell transcriptomics.  We introduce a novel PP differentiation platform based on a comprehensive compound screening with an advanced  computing tool to reduce impurities and to increase Glycoprotein-2 expression and subsequent trilineage potential. Superior PP tripotency was proven  by the generation of acinar, endocrine, and ductal cells as well as  upon orthotopic transplantation revealing all three lineages at fetal maturation level. GP2 expression levels at PP stage ascribed varying pancreatic lineage potential. Intermediate and high GP2 levels were superior in generating endocrine and duct-like organoids (PDLO). FACS-based purification of the GP2 PPs allowed the generation of pancreatic acinar-like organoids (PALO) with proper morphology and expression of digestive enzymes. scRNA-seq confirmed multipotent identity, positioned the GP2/PDX1/NKX6-1 population next to human fetal tip and trunk progenitors and identified novel ligand-receptor (LR) interactions in distinct PP subpopulations. LR validation experiments licensed midkine and VEGF signaling to increase markers labelling the single cell clusters with high GP2 expression.  In this study, we guide human pluripotent stem cells into multipotent pancreatic progenitors. This common precursor population, which has the ability to mature into acinar, ductal and functional β-cells, serves as a basis for studying developmental processes and deciphering early cancer formation in a cell type-specific context. Using single-cell RNA sequencing and subsequent validation studies, we were able to dissect PP heterogeneity and specific cell-cell communication signals."	
37824582	microbial genomics	PloS one	The PitA protein contributes to colistin susceptibility in Pseudomonas aeruginosa.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic pathogen that causes a wide range of problematic infections in individuals with predisposing conditions. Infections can be treated with colistin but some isolates are resistant to this antibiotic. To better understand the genetic basis of resistance, we experimentally evolved 19 independent resistant mutants from the susceptible laboratory strain PAO1. Whole genome sequencing identified mutations in multiple genes including phoQ and pmrB that have previously been associated with resistance, pitA that encodes a phosphate transporter, and carB and eno that encode enzymes of metabolism. Individual mutations were engineered into the genome of strain PAO1. Mutations in pitA, pmrB and phoQ increased the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) for colistin 8-fold, making the bacteria resistant. Engineered pitA/phoQ and pitA/pmrB double mutants had higher MICs than single mutants, demonstrating additive effects on colistin susceptibility. Single carB and eno mutations did not increase the MIC suggesting that their effect is dependent on the presence of other mutations. Many of the resistant mutants had increased susceptibility to β-lactams and lower growth rates than the parental strain demonstrating that colistin resistance can impose a fitness cost. Two hundred and fourteen P. aeruginosa isolates from a range of sources were tested and 18 (7.8%) were colistin resistant. Sequence variants in genes identified by experimental evolution were present in the 18 resistant isolates and may contribute to resistance. Overall our results identify pitA mutations as novel contributors to colistin resistance and demonstrate that resistance can reduce fitness of the bacteria."	
27284727	human genomics	RNA biology	"RPTOR, a novel target of miR-155, elicits a fibrotic phenotype of cystic fibrosis lung epithelium by upregulating CTGF."	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene, the most frequent of which is F508del-CFTR. CF is characterized by excessive secretion of pro-inflammatory mediators into the airway lumen, inducing a highly inflammatory cellular phenotype. This process triggers fibrosis, causing airway destruction and leading to high morbidity and mortality. We previously reported that miR-155 is upregulated in CF lung epithelial cells, but the molecular mechanisms by which miR-155 affects the disease phenotype is not understood. Here we report that RPTOR (regulatory associated protein of mTOR, complex 1) is a novel target of miR-155 in CF lung epithelial cells. The suppression of RPTOR expression and subsequent activation of TGF-β signaling resulted in the induction of fibrosis by elevating connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) abundance in CF lung epithelial cells. Thus, we propose that miR-155 might regulate fibrosis of CF lungs through the increased CTGF expression, highlighting its potential value in CF therapy."	
24023794	microbial genomics	PloS one	Response of Burkholderia cenocepacia H111 to micro-oxia.	"B. cenocepacia is an opportunistic human pathogen that is particularly problematic for patients suffering from cystic fibrosis (CF). In the CF lung bacteria grow to high densities within the viscous mucus that is limited in oxygen. Pseudomonas aeruginosa, the dominant pathogen in CF patients, is known to grow and survive under oxygen-limited to anaerobic conditions by using micro-oxic respiration, denitrification and fermentative pathways. In contrast, inspection of the genome sequences of available B. cenocepacia strains suggested that B. cenocepacia is an obligate aerobic and non-fermenting bacterium. In accordance with the bioinformatics analysis we observed that B. cenocepacia H111 is able to grow with as little as 0.1% O2 but not under strictly anoxic conditions. Phenotypic analyses revealed that H111 produced larger amounts of biofilm, pellicle and proteases under micro-oxic conditions (0.5%-5% O2, i.e. conditions that mimic those encountered in CF lung infection), and was more resistant to several antibiotics. RNA-Seq and shotgun proteomics analyses of cultures of B. cenocepacia H111 grown under micro-oxic and aerobic conditions showed up-regulation of genes involved in the synthesis of the exopolysaccharide (EPS) cepacian as well as several proteases, two isocitrate lyases and other genes potentially important for life in micro-oxia. RNA-Seq raw data files are accessible through the GEO Series accession number GSE48585. MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange database (PXD000270)."	
37909751	microbial genomics	Infection and immunity	"{'i': 'Achromobacter xylosoxidans', '#text': 'Pathogenesis of  respiratory infections: colonization, persistence, and transcriptome profiling in synthetic cystic fibrosis sputum medium.'}"	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a genetic disease affecting epithelial ion transport, resulting in thickened mucus and impaired mucociliary clearance. Persons with CF (pwCF) experience life-long infections of the respiratory mucosa caused by a diverse array of opportunists, which are leading causes of morbidity and mortality. In recent years, there has been increased appreciation for the range and diversity of microbes causing CF-related respiratory infections. The introduction of new therapeutics and improved detection methodology has revealed CF-related opportunists such as  ().  is a Gram-negative bacterial species which is widely distributed in environmental sources and has been increasingly observed in sputa and other samples from pwCF, typically in patients in later stages of CF disease. In this study, we characterized CF clinical isolates of  and tested colonization and persistence of  in respiratory infection using immortalized human CF respiratory epithelial cells and BALB/c mice. Genomic analyses of clinical  isolates showed homologs for factors including flagellar synthesis, antibiotic resistance, and toxin secretion systems.  isolates adhered to polarized cultures of CFBE41o- human immortalized CF bronchial epithelial cells and caused significant cytotoxicity and depolarization of cell layers.  colonized and persisted in mouse lungs for up to 72 h post infection, with inflammatory consequences that include increased neutrophil influx in the lung, lung damage, cytokine production, and mortality. We also identified genes that are differentially expressed in synthetic CF sputum media. Based on these results, we conclude that  is an opportunistic pathogen of significance in CF."	
26115051	phage genomics	PloS one	"Investigation of a Large Collection of Pseudomonas aeruginosa Bacteriophages Collected from a Single Environmental Source in Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire."	"Twenty two distinct bacteriophages were isolated from sewage water from five locations in the city of Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire over a two-year period, using a collection of Pseudomonas aeruginosa strains with diverse genotypes. The phages were characterized by their virulence spectrum on a panel of selected P. aeruginosa strains from cystic fibrosis patients and by whole genome sequencing. Twelve virions representing the observed diversity were visualised by electron microscopy. The combined observations showed that 17 phages, distributed into seven genera, were virulent, and that five phages were related to temperate phages belonging to three genera. Some showed similarity with known phages only at the protein level. The vast majority of the genetic variations among virulent phages from the same genus resulted from seemingly non-random horizontal transfer events, inside a population of P. aeruginosa phages with limited diversity. This suggests the existence of a single environmental reservoir or ecotype in which continuous selection is taking place. In contrast, mostly point mutations were observed among phages potentially capable of lysogenisation. This is the first study of P. aeruginosa phage diversity in an African city and it shows that a large variety of phage species can be recovered in a limited geographical site at least when different bacterial strains are used. The relative temporal and spatial stability of the Abidjan phage population might reflect equilibrium in the microbial community from which they are released."	
31657788	human genomics	The Journal of clinical investigation	Slowing ribosome velocity restores folding and function of mutant CFTR.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is caused by mutations in the CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), with approximately 90% of patients harboring at least one copy of the disease-associated variant F508del. We utilized a yeast phenomic system to identify genetic modifiers of F508del-CFTR biogenesis, from which ribosomal protein L12 (RPL12/uL11) emerged as a molecular target. In the present study, we investigated mechanism(s) by which suppression of RPL12 rescues F508del protein synthesis and activity. Using ribosome profiling, we found that rates of translation initiation and elongation were markedly slowed by RPL12 silencing. However, proteolytic stability and patch-clamp assays revealed RPL12 depletion significantly increased F508del-CFTR steady-state expression, interdomain assembly, and baseline open-channel probability. We next evaluated whether Rpl12-corrected F508del-CFTR could be further enhanced with concomitant pharmacologic repair (e.g., using clinically approved modulators lumacaftor and tezacaftor) and demonstrated additivity of these treatments. Rpl12 knockdown also partially restored maturation of specific CFTR variants in addition to F508del, and WT Cftr biogenesis was enhanced in the pancreas, colon, and ileum of Rpl12 haplosufficient mice. Modulation of ribosome velocity therefore represents a robust method for understanding both CF pathogenesis and therapeutic response."	
37903789	human genomics	Scientific reports	Exploring intrinsic variability between cultured nasal and bronchial epithelia in cystic fibrosis.	"The nasal and bronchial epithelium are unified parts of the respiratory tract that are affected in the monogenic disorder cystic fibrosis (CF). Recent studies have uncovered that nasal and bronchial tissues exhibit intrinsic variability, including differences in mucociliary cell composition and expression of unique transcriptional regulatory proteins which relate to germ layer origin. In the present study, we explored whether intrinsic differences between nasal and bronchial epithelial cells persist in cell cultures and affect epithelial cell functioning in CF. Comparison of air-liquid interface (ALI) differentiated epithelial cells from subjects with CF revealed distinct mucociliary differentiation states of nasal and bronchial cultures. Moreover, using RNA sequencing we identified cell type-specific signature transcription factors in differentiated nasal and bronchial epithelial cells, some of which were already poised for expression in basal progenitor cells as evidenced by ATAC sequencing. Analysis of differentiated nasal and bronchial epithelial 3D organoids revealed distinct capacities for fluid secretion, which was linked to differences in ciliated cell differentiation. In conclusion, we show that unique phenotypical and functional features of nasal and bronchial epithelial cells persist in cell culture models, which can be further used to investigate the effects of tissue-specific features on upper and lower respiratory disease development in CF."	
33737325	human genomics	Disease models & mechanisms	Hnf1b haploinsufficiency differentially affects developmental target genes in a new renal cysts and diabetes mouse model.	"Heterozygous mutations in HNF1B cause the complex syndrome renal cysts and diabetes (RCAD), characterized by developmental abnormalities of the kidneys, genital tracts and pancreas, and a variety of renal, pancreas and liver dysfunctions. The pathogenesis underlying this syndrome remains unclear as mice with heterozygous null mutations have no phenotype, while constitutive/conditional Hnf1b ablation leads to more severe phenotypes. We generated a novel mouse model carrying an identified human mutation at the intron-2 splice donor site. Unlike heterozygous mice previously characterized, mice heterozygous for the splicing mutation exhibited decreased HNF1B protein levels and bilateral renal cysts from embryonic day 15, originated from glomeruli, early proximal tubules (PTs) and intermediate nephron segments, concurrently with delayed PT differentiation, hydronephrosis and rare genital tract anomalies. Consistently, mRNA sequencing showed that most downregulated genes in embryonic kidneys were primarily expressed in early PTs and the loop of Henle and involved in ion/drug transport, organic acid and lipid metabolic processes, while the expression of previously identified targets upon Hnf1b ablation, including cystic disease genes, was weakly or not affected. Postnatal analyses revealed renal abnormalities, ranging from glomerular cysts to hydronephrosis and, rarely, multicystic dysplasia. Urinary proteomics uncovered a particular profile predictive of progressive decline in kidney function and fibrosis, and displayed common features with a recently reported urine proteome in an RCAD pediatric cohort. Altogether, our results show that reduced HNF1B levels lead to developmental disease phenotypes associated with the deregulation of a subset of HNF1B targets. They further suggest that this model represents a unique clinical/pathological viable model of the RCAD disease."	
26673704	human genomics	Nucleic acids research	Differential contribution of cis-regulatory elements to higher order chromatin structure and expression of the CFTR locus.	"Higher order chromatin structure establishes domains that organize the genome and coordinate gene expression. However, the molecular mechanisms controlling transcription of individual loci within a topological domain (TAD) are not fully understood. The cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene provides a paradigm for investigating these mechanisms.CFTR occupies a TAD bordered by CTCF/cohesin binding sites within which are cell-type-selective cis-regulatory elements for the locus. We showed previously that intronic and extragenic enhancers, when occupied by specific transcription factors, are recruited to the CFTR promoter by a looping mechanism to drive gene expression. Here we use a combination of CRISPR/Cas9 editing of cis-regulatory elements and siRNA-mediated depletion of architectural proteins to determine the relative contribution of structural elements and enhancers to the higher order structure and expression of the CFTR locus. We found the boundaries of the CFTRTAD are conserved among diverse cell types and are dependent on CTCF and cohesin complex. Removal of an upstream CTCF-binding insulator alters the interaction profile, but has little effect on CFTR expression. Within the TAD, intronic enhancers recruit cell-type selective transcription factors and deletion of a pivotal enhancer element dramatically decreases CFTR expression, but has minor effect on its 3D structure."	
19344509	human genomics	Respiratory research	Influence of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator on expression of lipid metabolism-related genes in dendritic cells.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is caused by mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene. Infections of the respiratory tract are a hallmark in CF. The host immune responses in CF are not adequate to eradicate pathogens, such as P. aeruginosa. Dendritic cells (DC) are crucial in initiation and regulation of immune responses. Changes in DC function could contribute to abnormal immune responses on multiple levels. The role of DC in CF lung disease remains unknown. This study investigated the expression of CFTR gene in bone marrow-derived DC. We compared the differentiation and maturation profile of DC from CF and wild type (WT) mice. We analyzed the gene expression levels in DC from naive CF and WT mice or following P. aeruginosa infection. CFTR is expressed in DC with lower level compared to lung tissue. DC from CF mice showed a delayed in the early phase of differentiation. Gene expression analysis in DC generated from naive CF and WT mice revealed decreased expression of Caveolin-1 (Cav1), a membrane lipid raft protein, in the CF DC compared to WT DC. Consistently, protein and activity levels of the sterol regulatory element binding protein (SREBP), a negative regulator of Cav1 expression, were increased in CF DC. Following exposure to P. aeruginosa, expression of 3beta-hydroxysterol-Delta7 reductase (Dhcr7) and stearoyl-CoA desaturase 2 (Scd2), two enzymes involved in the lipid metabolism that are also regulated by SREBP, was less decreased in the CF DC compared to WT DC. These results suggest that CFTR dysfunction in DC affects factors involved in membrane structure and lipid-metabolism, which may contribute to the abnormal inflammatory and immune response characteristic of CF."	
31772562	microbial genomics	Frontiers in immunology	"{'i': 'Staphylococcus aureus', '#text': 'High Nuclease Activity of Long Persisting  Isolates Within the Airways of Cystic Fibrosis Patients Protects Against NET-Mediated Killing.'}"	"is one of the first and most prevalent pathogens cultured from the airways of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients, which can persist there for extended periods. Airway infections in CF patients are characterized by a strong inflammatory response of highly recruited neutrophils. One killing mechanism of neutrophils is the formation of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs), which capture and eradicate bacteria by extracellular fibers of neutrophil chromatin decorated with antimicrobial granule proteins.  secretes nuclease, which can degrade NETs. We hypothesized, that  adapts to the airways of CF patients during persistent infection by escaping from NET-mediated killing via an increase of nuclease activity. Sputum samples of CF patients with chronic  infection were visualized by confocal microscopy after immuno-fluorescence staining for NET-specific markers,  bacteria and overall DNA structures. Nuclease activity was analyzed in sequential isogenic long persisting  isolates, as confirmed by whole genome sequencing, from an individual CF patient using a FRET-based nuclease activity assay. Additionally, some of these isolates were selected and analyzed by qRT-PCR to determine the expression of  and regulators of interest. NET-killing assays were performed with clinical  isolates to evaluate killing and bacterial survival depending on nuclease activity. To confirm the role of nuclease during NET-mediated killing, a clinical isolate with low nuclease activity was transformed with a nuclease expression vector (pCM28). Furthermore, two sputa from an individual CF patient were subjected to RNA-sequence analysis to evaluate the activity of nuclease . In sputa,  was associated to extracellular DNA structures. Nuclease activity in clinical  isolates increased in a time-and phenotype-dependent manner. In the clinical isolates, the expression of 1 was inversely correlated to the activity of  and was independent of . NET-mediated killing was significantly higher in  isolates with low compared to isolates with high nuclease activity. Importantly, transformation of the clinical isolate with low nuclease activity with pCM28 conferred protection against NET-mediated killing confirming the beneficial role of nuclease for protection against NETs. Also, nuclease expression in  sputa was high, which underlines the important role of nuclease within the highly inflamed CF airways. In conclusion, our data show that  adapts to the neutrophil-rich environment of CF airways with increasing nuclease expression most likely to avoid NET-killing during long-term persistence."	
20522626	microbial genomics	Journal of medical microbiology	Gene expression of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in a mucin-containing synthetic growth medium mimicking cystic fibrosis lung sputum.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa airway infection is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. Various in vitro models have been developed to study P. aeruginosa pathobiology in the CF lung. In this study we produced a modified artificial-sputum medium (ASMDM) more closely resembling CF sputum than previous models, and extended previous work by using strain PAO1 arrays to examine the global transcription profiles of P. aeruginosa strain UCBPP-PA14 under early exponential-phase and stationary-phase growth. In early exponential phase, 38/39 nutrition-related genes were upregulated in line with data from previous in vitro models using UCBPP-PA14. Additionally, 23 type III secretion system (T3SS) genes, several anaerobic respiration genes and 24 quorum-sensing (QS)-related genes were upregulated in ASMDM, suggesting enhanced virulence factor expression and priming for anaerobic growth and biofilm formation. Under stationary phase growth in ASMDM, macroscopic clumps resembling microcolonies were evident in UCBPP-PA14 and CF strains, and over 40 potentially important genes were differentially expressed relative to stationary-phase growth in Luria broth. Most notably, QS-related and T3SS genes were downregulated in ASMDM, and iron-acquisition and assimilatory nitrate reductase genes were upregulated, simulating the iron-depleted, microaerophilic/anaerobic environment of CF sputum. ASMDM thus appears to be highly suitable for gene expression studies of P. aeruginosa in CF."	
25593247	microbial genomics	Genome announcements	"Draft Genome Sequence of the Quorum-Sensing and Biofilm-Producing Pseudomonas aeruginosa Strain Pae221, Belonging to the Epidemic High-Risk Clone Sequence Type 274."	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa Pae221 is a clinical isolate from blood culture. Pae221 was found to be a strong quorum-sensing and biofilm-producing strain and also demonstrates a notable production of phenazines. This strain belongs to sequence type 274 (ST274), an epidemic high-risk clone. Here, we report the draft genome sequence of P. aeruginosa Pae221."	
38552367	human genomics	Biomaterials	A functional 3D full-thickness model for comprehending the interaction between airway epithelium and connective tissue in cystic fibrosis.	"Patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) experience severe lung disease, including persistent infections, inflammation, and irreversible fibrotic remodeling of the airways. Although therapy with transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) protein modulators reached optimal results in terms of CFTR rescue, lung transplant remains the best line of care for patients in an advanced stage of CF. Indeed, chronic inflammation and tissue remodeling still represent stumbling blocks during treatment, and underlying mechanisms are still unclear. Nowadays, animal models are not able to fully replicate clinical features of the human disease and the conventional in vitro models lack a stromal compartment undergoing fibrotic remodeling. To address this gap, we show the development of a 3D full-thickness model of CF with a human bronchial epithelium differentiated on a connective airway tissue. We demonstrated that the epithelial cells not only underwent mucociliary differentiation but also migrated in the connective tissue and formed gland-like structures. The presence of the connective tissue stimulated the pro-inflammatory behaviour of the epithelium, which activated the fibroblasts embedded into their own extracellular matrix (ECM). By varying the composition of the model with CF epithelial cells and a CF or healthy connective tissue, it was possible to replicate different moments of CF disease, as demonstrated by the differences in the transcriptome of the CF epithelium in the different conditions. The possibility to faithfully represent the crosstalk between epithelial and connective in CF through the full thickness model, along with inflammation and stromal activation, makes the model suitable to better understand mechanisms of disease genesis, progression, and response to therapy."	
32719544	pig genomics	Laboratory investigation; a journal of technical methods and pathology	Early pathogenesis of cystic fibrosis gallbladder disease in a porcine model.	"Hepatobiliary disease causes significant morbidity in people with cystic fibrosis (CF), yet this problem remains understudied. We previously found that newborn CF pigs have microgallbladders with significant luminal obstruction in the absence of infection and consistent inflammation. In this study, we sought to better understand the early pathogenesis of CF pig gallbladder disease. We hypothesized that loss of CFTR would impair gallbladder epithelium anion/liquid secretion and increase mucin production. CFTR was expressed apically in non-CF pig gallbladder epithelium but was absent in CF. CF pig gallbladders lacked cAMP-stimulated anion transport. Using a novel gallbladder epithelial organoid model, we found that Cl or HCO was sufficient for non-CF organoid swelling. This response was absent for non-CF organoids in Cl/HCO-free conditions and in CF. Single-cell RNA-sequencing revealed a single epithelial cell type in non-CF gallbladders that coexpressed CFTR, MUC5AC, and MUC5B. Despite CF gallbladders having increased luminal MUC5AC and MUC5B accumulation, there was no significant difference in the epithelial expression of gel-forming mucins between non-CF and CF pig gallbladders. In conclusion, these data suggest that loss of CFTR-mediated anion transport and fluid secretion contribute to microgallbladder development and luminal mucus accumulation in CF."	
34292148	microbial genomics	Microbial genomics	"{'i': 'Achromobacter', '#text': 'Genomic characterization of  species isolates from chronic and occasional lung infection in cystic fibrosis patients.'}"	"species are increasingly being detected in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients, where they can establish chronic infections by adapting to the lower airway environment. To better understand the mechanisms contributing to a successful colonization by  species, we sequenced the whole genome of 54 isolates from 26 patients with occasional and early/late chronic lung infection. We performed a phylogenetic analysis and compared virulence and resistance genes, genetic variants and mutations, and hypermutability mechanisms between chronic and occasional isolates. We identified five  species as well as two non-affiliated genogroups (NGs). Among them were the frequently isolated  and four other species whose clinical importance is not yet clear:  and . While  and  were isolated only from chronically infected patients and  only from occasionally infected patients, the other species were found in both groups. Most of the occasional isolates lacked functional genes involved in invasiveness, chemotaxis, type 3 secretion system and anaerobic growth, whereas the great majority (>60%) of chronic isolates had these genomic features. Interestingly, almost all (=22/23) late chronic isolates lacked functional genes involved in lipopolysaccharide production. Regarding antibiotic resistance, we observed a species-specific distribution of  genes, confirming what has been reported in the literature and additionally identifying  in some  isolates and observing no  genes in  or NGs. No significant difference in resistance genes was found between chronic and occasional isolates. The results of the mutator genes analysis showed that no occasional isolate had hypermutator characteristics, while 60% of early chronic (<1 year from first colonization) and 78% of late chronic (>1 year from first colonization) isolates were classified as hypermutators. Although all  and NG isolates presented two different  genes, these seem to have a complementary rather than compensatory function. In conclusion, our results show that  species can exhibit different adaptive mechanisms and some of these mechanisms might be more useful than others in establishing a chronic infection in CF patients, highlighting their importance for the clinical setting and the need for further studies on the less clinically characterized  species."	
38003349	human genomics	International journal of molecular sciences	Intercellular Communication in Airway Epithelial Cell Regeneration: Potential Roles of Connexins and Pannexins.	"Connexins and pannexins are transmembrane proteins that can form direct (gap junctions) or indirect (connexons, pannexons) intercellular communication channels. By propagating ions, metabolites, sugars, nucleotides, miRNAs, and/or second messengers, they participate in a variety of physiological functions, such as tissue homeostasis and host defense. There is solid evidence supporting a role for intercellular signaling in various pulmonary inflammatory diseases where alteration of connexin/pannexin channel functional expression occurs, thus leading to abnormal intercellular communication pathways and contributing to pathophysiological aspects, such as innate immune defense and remodeling. The integrity of the airway epithelium, which is the first line of defense against invading microbes, is established and maintained by a repair mechanism that involves processes such as proliferation, migration, and differentiation. Here, we briefly summarize current knowledge on the contribution of connexins and pannexins to necessary processes of tissue repair and speculate on their possible involvement in the shaping of the airway epithelium integrity."	
36643895	human genomics	FASEB bioAdvances	Early developmental phenotypes in the cystic fibrosis sheep model.	"Highly effective modulator therapies for cystic fibrosis (CF) make it a treatable condition for many people. However, although CF respiratory illness occurs after birth, other organ systems particularly in the digestive tract are damaged before birth. We use an ovine model of CF to investigate the in utero origins of CF disease since the sheep closely mirrors critical aspects of human development. Wildtype (WT) and   sheep tissues were collected at 50, 65, 80, 100, and 120 days of gestation and term (147 days) and used for histological, electrophysiological, and molecular analysis. Histological abnormalities are evident in    animals by 80 days of gestation, equivalent to 21 weeks in humans. Acinar and ductal dilation, mucus obstruction, and fibrosis are observed in the pancreas; biliary fibrosis, cholestasis, and gallbladder hypoplasia in the liver; and intestinal meconium obstruction, as seen at birth in all large animal models of CF. Concurrently, cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR)-dependent short circuit current is present in WT tracheal epithelium by 80 days gestation and is absent from   tissues. Transcriptomic profiles of tracheal tissues confirm the early expression of  and suggest that its loss does not globally impair tracheal differentiation."	
25278533	microbial genomics	Genome announcements	Draft Genome Sequence of the Pathogenic Fungus Scedosporium apiospermum.	"The first genome of one species of the Scedosporium apiospermum complex, responsible for localized to severe disseminated infections according to the immune status of the host, will contribute to a better understanding of the pathogenicity of these fungi and also to the discovery of the mechanisms underlying their low susceptibility to current antifungals."	
33931418	microbial genomics	Applied and environmental microbiology	A Histone-Like Nucleoid Structuring Protein Regulates Several Virulence Traits in Burkholderia multivorans.	"Burkholderia cepacia complex bacteria comprise opportunistic pathogens causing chronic respiratory infections in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. These microorganisms produce an exopolysaccharide named cepacian, which is considered a virulence determinant. To find genes implicated in the regulation of cepacian biosynthesis, we characterized an evolved nonmucoid variant (17616nmv) derived from the ancestor, Burkholderia multivorans ATCC 17616, after prolonged stationary phase. Lack of cepacian biosynthesis was correlated with downregulation of the expression of  genes implicated in its biosynthesis. Furthermore, genome sequencing of the variant identified the transposition of the mobile element IS upstream of the coding sequence of an -like gene (Bmul_0158) encoding a histone-like nucleoid structuring (H-NS) protein, a known global transcriptional repressor. This insertion sequence (IS) element upregulated the expression of Bmul_0158 by 4-fold. Transcriptome analysis identified the global effects of this mutation on gene expression, with major changes in genes implicated in motility, pilus synthesis, type VI secretion, and chromosome-associated functions. Concomitant with these differences, the nonmucoid variant displays reduced adherence to a CF lung bronchial cell line and reduced surface hydrophobicity and forms smaller cellular aggregates but has an increase in swimming and swarming motilities. Finally, analysis of the GC content of the upstream region of differentially expressed genes led to the identification of various genomic regions, possibly acquired by horizontal gene transfer, which were transcriptionally repressed by the increased expression of the Bmul_0158 gene in the 17616nmv strain. Taken together, the results revealed a significant role for this H-NS protein in the regulation of  persistence- and virulence-associated genes.  Members of the histone-like nucleoid structuring (H-NS) family of proteins, present in many bacteria, are important global regulators of gene expression. Many of the regulated genes were acquired horizontally and include pathogenicity islands and prophages, among others. Additionally, H-NS can play a structural role by bridging and compacting DNA, fulfilling a crucial role in cell physiology. Several virulence phenotypes have been frequently identified in several bacteria as dependent on H-NS activity. Here, we describe an H-NS-like protein of the opportunistic pathogen Burkholderia multivorans, a species commonly infecting the respiratory tract of cystic fibrosis patients. Our results indicate that this protein is involved in regulating virulence traits such as exopolysaccharide biosynthesis, adhesion to biotic surfaces, cellular aggregation, and motility. Furthermore, this H-NS-like protein is one out of eight orthologs present in the  ATCC 17616 genome, posing relevant questions to be investigated on how these proteins coordinate the expression of virulence traits."	
24136849	microbial genomics	Genome announcements	Draft Genome Sequences of Burkholderia cenocepacia ET12 Lineage Strains K56-2 and BC7.	"The Burkholderia cepacia complex (BCC) is a group of closely related bacteria that are responsible for respiratory infections in immunocompromised humans, most notably those with cystic fibrosis (CF). We report the genome sequences for Burkholderia cenocepacia ET12 lineage CF isolates K56-2 and BC7."	
35867391	microbial genomics	Microbiology spectrum	Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa Isolates from the Same Cystic Fibrosis Respiratory Sample Coexist in Coculture.	"Respiratory infections with bacterial pathogens remain the major cause of morbidity in individuals with the genetic disease cystic fibrosis (CF). Some studies have shown that CF patients that harbor both Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa in their lungs are at even greater risk for more severe and complicated respiratory infections and earlier death. However, the drivers for this worse clinical condition are not well understood. To investigate the interactions between these two microbes that might be responsible for their increased pathogenic potential, we obtained 28 pairs of S. aureus and P. aeruginosa from the same respiratory samples from 18 individuals with CF. We compared the survival of each S. aureus CF isolate cocultured with its corresponding coinfecting CF P. aeruginosa to when it was cocultured with non-CF laboratory strains of P. aeruginosa. We found that the S. aureus survival was significantly higher in the presence of the coinfecting P. aeruginosa compared to laboratory P. aeruginosa strains, regardless of whether the coinfecting isolate was mucoid or nonmucoid. We also tested how a non-CF S. aureus strain, JE2, behaved with each P. aeruginosa CF isolate and found that its interaction was similar to how the CF S. aureus isolate interacted with its coinfecting P. aeruginosa. Altogether, our work suggests that interactions between S. aureus and P. aeruginosa that promote coexistence in the CF lung are isolate-dependent and that this interaction appears to be driven mainly by P. aeruginosa.  Previous studies have shown that in laboratory settings, Pseudomonas aeruginosa generally kills Staphylococcus aureus. However, these bacteria are often found coinfecting the lungs of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients, which has been associated with worse patient outcomes. To investigate the interactions between these two bacteria, we competed 28 coinfection pairs obtained from the same lung samples of 18 different CF patients. We compared these results to those we previously reported of each CF S. aureus isolate against a non-CF laboratory strain of P. aeruginosa. We found that S. aureus survival against its corresponding coinfection P. aeruginosa was higher than its survival against the laboratory strain of P. aeruginosa. These results suggest that there may be selection for coexistence of these microbes in the CF lung environment. Further understanding of the interactions between P. aeruginosa and S. aureus will provide insights into the drivers of coexistence and their impact on the host."	
30892081	human genomics	American journal of physiology. Lung cellular and molecular physiology	Acetyl-CoA carboxylase inhibition regulates microtubule dynamics and intracellular transport in cystic fibrosis epithelial cells.	"The use of high-dose ibuprofen as an anti-inflammatory therapy in cystic fibrosis (CF) has been shown to be an effective intervention although use is limited due to potential adverse events. Identifying the mechanism of ibuprofen efficacy would aid in the development of new therapies that avoid these adverse events. Previous findings demonstrated that ibuprofen treatment restores the regulation of microtubule dynamics in CF epithelial cells through a 5'-adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK)-dependent mechanism. The goal of this study is to define the AMPK pathway that leads to microtubule regulation. Here, it is identified that inhibition of acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) is the key step in mediating the AMPK effect. ACC inhibition with 5-(tetradecyloxy)-2-furoic acid (TOFA) increases microtubule reformation rates in cultured and primary CF epithelial cells to wild-type (WT) rates. TOFA treatment also restores microtubule-dependent distribution of cholesterol and Rab7-positive organelles, as well as reduces expression of the proinflammatory signaling molecule RhoA to WT levels. ACC activation with citrate replicates these CF phenotypes in WT cells further supporting the role of AMPK signaling through ACC as a key mediator in CF cell signaling. It is concluded that ACC inhibition is the key step in the efficacy of AMPK activation at the cellular level and could represent a novel site of therapeutic intervention to address inflammation in CF."	
26751771	human genomics	Oncogene	CFTR is a tumor suppressor gene in murine and human intestinal cancer.	"CFTR, the cystic fibrosis (CF) gene, encodes for the CFTR protein that plays an essential role in anion regulation and tissue homeostasis of various epithelia. In the gastrointestinal (GI) tract CFTR promotes chloride and bicarbonate secretion, playing an essential role in ion and acid-base homeostasis. Cftr has been identified as a candidate driver gene for colorectal cancer (CRC) in several Sleeping Beauty DNA transposon-based forward genetic screens in mice. Further, recent epidemiological and clinical studies indicate that CF patients are at high risk for developing tumors in the colon. To investigate the effects of CFTR dysregulation on GI cancer, we generated Apc(Min) mice that carried an intestinal-specific knockout of Cftr. Our results indicate that Cftr is a tumor suppressor gene in the intestinal tract as Cftr mutant mice developed significantly more tumors in the colon and the entire small intestine. In Apc(+/+) mice aged to ~1 year, Cftr deficiency alone caused the development of intestinal tumors in >60% of mice. Colon organoid formation was significantly increased in organoids created from Cftr mutant mice compared with wild-type controls, suggesting a potential role of Cftr in regulating the intestinal stem cell compartment. Microarray data from the Cftr-deficient colon and the small intestine identified dysregulated genes that belong to groups of immune response, ion channel, intestinal stem cell and other growth signaling regulators. These associated clusters of genes were confirmed by pathway analysis using Ingenuity Pathway Analysis and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA). We also conducted RNA Seq analysis of tumors from Apc(+/+) Cftr knockout mice and identified sets of genes dysregulated in tumors including altered Wnt β-catenin target genes. Finally we analyzed expression of CFTR in early stage human CRC patients stratified by risk of recurrence and found that loss of expression of CFTR was significantly associated with poor disease-free survival."	
31214142	microbial genomics	Frontiers in microbiology	"{'i': 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa', '#text': 'Catabolism of Nucleic Acids by a Cystic Fibrosis  Isolate: An Adaptive Pathway to Cystic Fibrosis Sputum Environment.'}"	"is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). We undertook Biolog Phenotype Microarray testing of  CF isolates to investigate their catabolic capabilities compared to  laboratory strains PAO1 and PA14. One strain, PASS4, displayed an unusual phenotype, only showing strong respiration on adenosine and inosine. Further testing indicated that PASS4 could grow on DNA as a sole carbon source, with a higher biomass production than PAO1. This suggested that PASS4 was specifically adapted to metabolize extracellular DNA, a substrate present at high concentrations in the CF lung. Transcriptomic and proteomic profiling of PASS4 and PAO1 when grown with DNA as a sole carbon source identified a set of upregulated genes, including virulence and host-adaptation genes. PASS4 was unable to utilize -Acetyl-D-glucosamine, and when we selected PASS4 mutants able to grow on this carbon source, they also displayed a gain in ability to catabolize a broad range of other carbon sources. Genome sequencing of the mutants revealed they all contained mutations within the  gene, encoding a key protein in the  purine biosynthesis pathway. This suggested that PASS4 was a purine auxotroph. Growth assays in the presence of 2 mM adenosine and the complementation of PASS4 with an intact  gene confirmed this conclusion. Purine auxotrophy may represent a viable microbial strategy for adaptation to DNA-rich environments such as the CF lung."	
28446577	microbial genomics	Journal of clinical microbiology	Population Dynamics of Staphylococcus aureus in Cystic Fibrosis Patients To Determine Transmission Events by Use of Whole-Genome Sequencing.	"Strict infection control practices have been implemented for health care visits by cystic fibrosis (CF) patients in an attempt to prevent transmission of important pathogens. This study used whole-genome sequencing (WGS) to determine strain relatedness and assess population dynamics of  isolates from a cohort of CF patients as assessed by strain relatedness. A total of 311  isolates were collected from respiratory cultures of 115 CF patients during a 22-month study period. Whole-genome sequencing was performed, and using single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis, phylogenetic trees were assembled to determine relatedness between isolates. Methicillin-resistant  (MRSA) phenotypes were predicted using PPFS2 and compared to the observed phenotype. The accumulation of SNPs in multiple isolates obtained over time from the same patient was examined to determine if a genomic molecular clock could be calculated. Pairs of isolates with ≤71 SNP differences were considered to be the ""same"" strain. All of the ""same"" strain isolates were either from the same patient or siblings pairs. There were 47 examples of patients being superinfected with an unrelated strain. The predicted MRSA phenotype was accurate in all but three isolates. Mutation rates were unable to be determined because the branching order in the phylogenetic tree was inconsistent with the order of isolation. The observation that transmissions were identified between sibling patients shows that WGS is an effective tool for determining transmission between patients. The observation that transmission only occurred between siblings suggests that  acquisition in our CF population occurred outside the hospital environment and indicates that current infection prevention efforts appear effective."	
31089134	human genomics	Nature communications	"IL-1β, IL-23, and TGF-β drive plasticity of human ILC2s towards IL-17-producing ILCs in nasal inflammation."	"Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) are crucial for the immune surveillance at mucosal sites. ILCs coordinate early eradication of pathogens and contribute to tissue healing and remodeling, features that are dysfunctional in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). The mechanisms by which ILCs contribute to CF-immunopathology are ill-defined. Here, we show that group 2 ILCs (ILC2s) transdifferentiated into IL-17-secreting cells in the presence of the epithelial-derived cytokines IL-1β, IL-23 and TGF-β. This conversion is abrogated by IL-4 or vitamin D3. IL-17 producing ILC2s induce IL-8 secretion by epithelial cells and their presence in nasal polyps of CF patients is associated with neutrophilia. Our data suggest that ILC2s undergo transdifferentiation in CF nasal polyps in response to local cytokines, which are induced by infectious agents."	
31557407	human genomics	Journal of cellular and molecular medicine	Coordinate regulation of ELF5 and EHF at the chr11p13 CF modifier region.	"E74-like factor 5 (ELF5) and ETS-homologous factor (EHF) are epithelial selective ETS family transcription factors (TFs) encoded by genes at chr11p13, a region associated with cystic fibrosis (CF) lung disease severity. EHF controls many key processes in lung epithelial function so its regulatory mechanisms are important. Using CRISPR/Cas9 technology, we removed three key cis-regulatory elements (CREs) from the chr11p13 region and also activated multiple open chromatin sites with CRISPRa in airway epithelial cells. Deletion of the CREs caused subtle changes in chromatin architecture and site-specific increases in EHF and ELF5. CRISPRa had most effect on ELF5 transcription. ELF5 levels are low in airway cells but higher in LNCaP (prostate) and T47D (breast) cancer cells. ATAC-seq in these lines revealed novel peaks of open chromatin at the 5' end of chr11p13 associated with an expressed ELF5 gene. Furthermore, 4C-seq assays identified direct interactions between the active ELF5 promoter and sites within the EHF locus, suggesting coordinate regulation between these TFs. ChIP-seq for ELF5 in T47D cells revealed ELF5 occupancy within EHF introns 1 and 6, and siRNA-mediated depletion of ELF5 enhanced EHF expression. These results define a new role for ELF5 in lung epithelial biology."	
21358759	human genomics	Canadian journal of microbiology	Malate synthase expression is deregulated in the Pseudomonas aeruginosa cystic fibrosis isolate FRD1.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa causes chronic pulmonary infections, which can persist for decades, in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). Current evidence suggests that the glyoxylate pathway is an important metabolic pathway for P. aeruginosa growing within the CF lung. In this study, we identified glcB, which encodes for the second key enzyme of the glyoxylate pathway, malate synthase, as a requirement for virulence of P. aeruginosa on alfalfa seedlings. While expression of glcB in PAO1, an acute isolate of P. aeruginosa, responds to some carbon sources that use the glyoxylate pathway, expression of glcB in FRD1, a CF isolate, is constitutively upregulated. Malate synthase activity is moderately affected by glcB expression and is nearly constitutive in both backgrounds, with slightly higher activity in FRD1 than in PAO1. In addition, RpoN negatively regulates glcB in PAO1 but not in FRD1. In summary, the genes encoding for the glyoxylate-specific enzymes appear to be coordinately regulated, even though they are not located within the same operon on the P. aeruginosa genome. Furthermore, both genes encoding for the glyoxylate enzymes can become deregulated during adaptation of the bacterium to the CF lung."	
28549169	human genomics	Nucleic acids research	Regulatory dynamics of 11p13 suggest a role for EHF in modifying CF lung disease severity.	"Mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene cause cystic fibrosis (CF), but are not good predictors of lung phenotype. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) previously identified additional genomic sites associated with CF lung disease severity. One of these, at chromosome 11p13, is an intergenic region between Ets homologous factor (EHF) and Apaf-1 interacting protein (APIP). Our goal was to determine the functional significance of this region, which being intergenic is probably regulatory. To identify cis-acting elements, we used DNase-seq and H3K4me1 and H3K27Ac ChIP-seq to map open and active chromatin respectively, in lung epithelial cells. Two elements showed strong enhancer activity for the promoters of EHF and the 5' adjacent gene E47 like ETS transcription factor 5 (ELF5) in reporter gene assays. No enhancers of the APIP promoter were found. Circular chromosome conformation capture (4C-seq) identified direct physical interactions of elements within 11p13. This confirmed the enhancer-promoter associations, identified additional interacting elements and defined topologically associating domain (TAD) boundaries, enriched for CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF). No strong interactions were observed with the APIP promoter, which lies outside the main TAD encompassing the GWAS signal. These results focus attention on the role of EHF in modifying CF lung disease severity."	
22763554	pig genomics	Nature	Reduced airway surface pH impairs bacterial killing in the porcine cystic fibrosis lung.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a life-shortening disease caused by mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene. Although bacterial lung infection and the resulting inflammation cause most of the morbidity and mortality, how the loss of CFTR function first disrupts airway host defence has remained uncertain. To investigate the abnormalities that impair elimination when a bacterium lands on the pristine surface of a newborn CF airway, we interrogated the viability of individual bacteria immobilized on solid grids and placed onto the airway surface. As a model, we studied CF pigs, which spontaneously develop hallmark features of CF lung disease. At birth, their lungs lack infection and inflammation, but have a reduced ability to eradicate bacteria. Here we show that in newborn wild-type pigs, the thin layer of airway surface liquid (ASL) rapidly kills bacteria in vivo, when removed from the lung and in primary epithelial cultures. Lack of CFTR reduces bacterial killing. We found that the ASL pH was more acidic in CF pigs, and reducing pH inhibited the antimicrobial activity of ASL. Reducing ASL pH diminished bacterial killing in wild-type pigs, and, conversely, increasing ASL pH rescued killing in CF pigs. These results directly link the initial host defence defect to the loss of CFTR, an anion channel that facilitates HCO(3)(-) transport. Without CFTR, airway epithelial HCO(3)(-) secretion is defective, the ASL pH falls and inhibits antimicrobial function, and thereby impairs the killing of bacteria that enter the newborn lung. These findings suggest that increasing ASL pH might prevent the initial infection in patients with CF, and that assaying bacterial killing could report on the benefit of therapeutic interventions."	
30323028	human genomics	Infection and immunity	Characterization of Host Responses during Pseudomonas aeruginosa Acute Infection in the Lungs and Blood and after Treatment with the Synthetic Immunomodulatory Peptide IDR-1002.	"is an opportunistic pathogen that causes nosocomial pneumonia and infects patients with cystic fibrosis.  lung infections are difficult to treat due to bacterial resistance to antibiotics, and strains with multidrug resistance are becoming more prevalent. Here, we examined the use of a small host defense peptide, innate defense regulator 1002 (IDR-1002), in an acute  lung infection  IDR-1002 significantly reduced the bacterial burden in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), as well as MCP-1 in BALF and serum, KC in serum, and interleukin 6 (IL-6) in BALF. Transcriptome sequencing (RNA-Seq) was conducted on lungs and whole blood, and the effects of , IDR-1002, and the combination of  and IDR-1002 were evaluated. Differential gene expression analysis showed that  increased multiple inflammatory and innate immune pathways, as well as affected hemostasis, matrix metalloproteinases, collagen biosynthesis, and various metabolism pathways in the lungs and/or blood. Infected mice treated with IDR-1002 had significant changes in gene expression compared to untreated infected mice, with fewer differentially expressed genes associated with the inflammatory and innate immune responses to microbial infection, and treatment also affected morphogenesis, certain metabolic pathways, and lymphocyte activation. Overall, these results showed that IDR-1002 was effective in treating  acute lung infections and associated inflammation."	
24115552	microbial genomics	Genome announcements	Draft Genome Sequence of a Mucoid Isolate of Pseudomonas aeruginosa Strain C7447m from a Patient with Cystic Fibrosis.	"Alginate overproduction by Pseudomonas aeruginosa, or mucoidy, plays an important role in the pathogenesis of chronic lung infections in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. Here we report the draft genome sequence of a clinical isolate of mucoid P. aeruginosa strain C7447m from a CF patient with chronic lung infection."	
34099697	human genomics	Nature communications	A deep learning approach to identify gene targets of a therapeutic for human splicing disorders.	"Pre-mRNA splicing is a key controller of human gene expression. Disturbances in splicing due to mutation lead to dysregulated protein expression and contribute to a substantial fraction of human disease. Several classes of splicing modulator compounds (SMCs) have been recently identified and establish that pre-mRNA splicing represents a target for therapy. We describe herein the identification of BPN-15477, a SMC that restores correct splicing of ELP1 exon 20. Using transcriptome sequencing from treated fibroblast cells and a machine learning approach, we identify BPN-15477 responsive sequence signatures. We then leverage this model to discover 155 human disease genes harboring ClinVar mutations predicted to alter pre-mRNA splicing as targets for BPN-15477. Splicing assays confirm successful correction of splicing defects caused by mutations in CFTR, LIPA, MLH1 and MAPT. Subsequent validations in two disease-relevant cellular models demonstrate that BPN-15477 increases functional protein, confirming the clinical potential of our predictions."	
30833775	human genomics	Nature biotechnology	Tubuloids derived from human adult kidney and urine for personalized disease modeling.	"Adult stem cell-derived organoids are three-dimensional epithelial structures that recapitulate fundamental aspects of their organ of origin. We describe conditions for the long-term growth of primary kidney tubular epithelial organoids, or 'tubuloids'. The cultures are established from human and mouse kidney tissue and can be expanded for at least 20 passages (>6 months) while retaining a normal number of chromosomes. In addition, cultures can be established from human urine. Human tubuloids represent proximal as well as distal nephron segments, as evidenced by gene expression, immunofluorescence and tubular functional analyses. We apply tubuloids to model infectious, malignant and hereditary kidney diseases in a personalized fashion. BK virus infection of tubuloids recapitulates in vivo phenomena. Tubuloids are established from Wilms tumors. Kidney tubuloids derived from the urine of a subject with cystic fibrosis allow ex vivo assessment of treatment efficacy. Finally, tubuloids cultured on microfluidic organ-on-a-chip plates adopt a tubular conformation and display active (trans-)epithelial transport function."	
33613309	human genomics	Frontiers in physiology	CFTR Correctors and Antioxidants Partially Normalize Lipid Imbalance but not Abnormal Basal Inflammatory Cytokine Profile in CF Bronchial Epithelial Cells.	"A deficiency in cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) function in CF leads to chronic lung disease. CF is associated with abnormalities in fatty acids, ceramides, and cholesterol, their relationship with CF lung pathology is not completely understood. Therefore, we examined the impact of CFTR deficiency on lipid metabolism and pro-inflammatory signaling in airway epithelium using mass spectrometric, protein array. We observed a striking imbalance in fatty acid and ceramide metabolism, associated with chronic oxidative stress under basal conditions in CF mouse lung and well-differentiated bronchial epithelial cell cultures of CFTR knock out pig and CF patients. Cell-autonomous features of all three CF models included high ratios of ω-6- to ω-3-polyunsaturated fatty acids and of long- to very long-chain ceramide species (LCC/VLCC), reduced levels of total ceramides and ceramide precursors. In addition to the retinoic acid analog fenretinide, the anti-oxidants glutathione (GSH) and deferoxamine partially corrected the lipid profile indicating that oxidative stress may promote the lipid abnormalities. CFTR-targeted modulators reduced the lipid imbalance and oxidative stress, confirming the CFTR dependence of lipid ratios. However, despite functional correction of CF cells up to 60% of non-CF in Ussing chamber experiments, a 72-h triple compound treatment (elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor surrogate) did not completely normalize lipid imbalance or oxidative stress. Protein array analysis revealed differential expression and shedding of cytokines and growth factors from CF epithelial cells compared to non-CF cells, consistent with sterile inflammation and tissue remodeling under basal conditions, including enhanced secretion of the neutrophil activator CXCL5, and the T-cell activator CCL17. However, treatment with antioxidants or CFTR modulators that mimic the approved combination therapies, ivacaftor/lumacaftor and ivacaftor/tezacaftor/elexacaftor, did not effectively suppress the inflammatory phenotype. We propose that CFTR deficiency causes oxidative stress in CF airway epithelium, affecting multiple bioactive lipid metabolic pathways, which likely play a role in CF lung disease progression. A combination of anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory and CFTR targeted therapeutics may be required for full correction of the CF phenotype."	
26691451	microbial genomics	Brazilian journal of microbiology : [publication of the Brazilian Society for Microbiology]	"Draft genome sequence of Inquilinus limosus strain MP06, a multidrug-resistant clinical isolate."	"The bacterium, Inquilinus limosus, with its remarkable antimicrobial multiresistant profile, has increasingly been isolated in cystic fibrosis patients. We report draft genome sequence of a strain MP06, which is of considerable interest in elucidating the associated mechanisms of antibiotic resistance in this bacterium and for an insight about its persistence in airways of these patients."	
36480571	microbial genomics	PloS one	Whole blood RNA-seq demonstrates an increased host immune response in individuals with cystic fibrosis who develop nontuberculous mycobacterial pulmonary disease.	"Individuals with cystic fibrosis have an elevated lifetime risk of colonization, infection, and disease caused by nontuberculous mycobacteria. A prior study involving non-cystic fibrosis individuals reported a gene expression signature associated with susceptibility to nontuberculous mycobacteria pulmonary disease (NTM-PD). In this study, we determined whether people living with cystic fibrosis who progress to NTM-PD have a gene expression pattern similar to the one seen in the non-cystic fibrosis population. We evaluated whole blood transcriptomics using bulk RNA-seq in a cohort of cystic fibrosis patients with samples collected closest in timing to the first isolation of nontuberculous mycobacteria. The study population included patients who did (n = 12) and did not (n = 30) develop NTM-PD following the first mycobacterial growth. Progression to NTM-PD was defined by a consensus of two expert clinicians based on reviewing clinical, microbiological, and radiological information. Differential gene expression was determined by DESeq2. No differences in demographics or composition of white blood cell populations between groups were identified at baseline. Out of 213 genes associated with NTM-PD in the non-CF population, only two were significantly different in our cystic fibrosis NTM-PD cohort. Gene set enrichment analysis of the differential expression results showed that CF individuals who developed NTM-PD had higher expression levels of genes involved in the interferon (α and γ), tumor necrosis factor, and IL6-STAT3-JAK pathways. In contrast to the non-cystic fibrosis population, the gene expression signature of patients with cystic fibrosis who develop NTM-PD is characterized by increased innate immune responses."	
31895486	microbial genomics	Cellular microbiology	Importance of superoxide dismutases A and M for protection of Staphylococcus aureus in the oxidative stressful environment of cystic fibrosis airways.	"Staphylococcus aureus is one of the earliest pathogens that persists the airways of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients and contributes to increased inflammation and decreased lung function. In contrast to other staphylococci, S. aureus possesses two superoxide dismutases (SODs), SodA and SodM, with SodM being unique to S. aureus. Both SODs arm S. aureus for its fight against oxidative stress, a by-product of inflammatory reactions. Despite complex investigations, it is still unclear if both enzymes are crucial for the special pathogenicity of S. aureus. To investigate the role of both SODs during staphylococcal persistence in CF airways, we analysed survival and gene expression of S. aureus CF isolates and laboratory strains in different CF-related in vitro and ex vivo settings. Bacteria located in inflammatory and oxidised CF sputum transcribed high levels of sodA and sodM. Especially expression values of sodM were remarkably higher in CF sputum than in bacterial in vitro cultures. Interestingly, also S. aureus located in airway epithelial cells expressed elevated transcript numbers of both SODs, indicating that S. aureus is exposed to oxidative stress at various sites within CF airways. Both enzymes promoted survival of S. aureus during polymorphonuclear leukocyte killing and seem to act compensatory, thereby giving evidence that the interwoven interaction of SodA and SodM contributes to S. aureus virulence and facilitates S. aureus persistence within CF airways."	
31980676	human genomics	Scientific reports	Plasma microRNA levels in male and female children with cystic fibrosis.	"A gender gap exists in cystic fibrosis (CF). Here we investigate whether plasma microRNA expression profiles differ between the sexes in CF children. MicroRNA expression was quantified in paediatric CF plasma (n = 12; six females; Age range:1-6; Median Age: 3; 9 p.Phe508del homo- or heterozygotes) using TaqMan OpenArray Human miRNA Panels. Principal component analysis indicated differences in male versus female miRNA profiles. The miRNA array analysis revealed two miRNAs which were significantly increased in the female samples (miR-885-5p; fold change (FC):5.07, adjusted p value: 0.026 and miR-193a-5p; FC:2.6, adjusted p value: 0.031), although only miR-885-5p was validated as increased in females using specific qPCR assay (p < 0.0001). Gene ontology analysis of miR-885-5p validated targets identified cell migration, motility and fibrosis as processes potentially affected, with RAC1-mediated signalling featuring significantly. There is a significant increase in miR-885-5p in plasma of females versus males with CF under six years of age."	
33948572	human genomics	Cell reports. Medicine	Transcriptional firing represses bactericidal activity in cystic fibrosis airway neutrophils.	"Neutrophils are often considered terminally differentiated and poised for bacterial killing. In chronic diseases such as cystic fibrosis (CF), an unexplained paradox pits massive neutrophil presence against prolonged bacterial infections. Here, we show that neutrophils recruited to CF airways  and in an  transmigration model display rapid and broad transcriptional firing, leading to an upregulation of anabolic genes and a downregulation of antimicrobial genes. Newly transcribed RNAs are mirrored by the appearance of corresponding proteins, confirming active translation in these cells. Treatment by the RNA polymerase II and III inhibitor α-amanitin restores the expression of key antimicrobial genes and increases the bactericidal capacity of CF airway neutrophils  and in short-term sputum cultures . Broadly, our findings show that neutrophil plasticity is regulated at the site of inflammation via RNA and protein synthesis, leading to adaptations that affect their canonical functions (i.e., bacterial clearance)."	
25401299	microbial genomics	Nature genetics	Convergent evolution and adaptation of Pseudomonas aeruginosa within patients with cystic fibrosis.	"Little is known about how within-host evolution compares between genotypically different strains of the same pathogenic species. We sequenced the whole genomes of 474 longitudinally collected clinical isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa sampled from 34 children and young individuals with cystic fibrosis. Our analysis of 36 P. aeruginosa lineages identified convergent molecular evolution in 52 genes. This list of genes suggests a role in host adaptation for remodeling of regulatory networks and central metabolism, acquisition of antibiotic resistance and loss of extracellular virulence factors. Furthermore, we find an ordered succession of mutations in key regulatory networks. Accordingly, mutations in downstream transcriptional regulators were contingent upon mutations in upstream regulators, suggesting that remodeling of regulatory networks might be important in adaptation. The characterization of genes involved in host adaptation may help in predicting bacterial evolution in patients with cystic fibrosis and in the design of future intervention strategies."	
22672046	microbial genomics	Environmental microbiology	Deletion and acquisition of genomic content during early stage adaptation of Pseudomonas aeruginosa to a human host environment.	"Adaptation of bacterial pathogens to a permanently host-associated lifestyle by means of deletion or acquisition of genetic material is usually examined through comparison of present-day isolates to a distant theoretical ancestor. This limits the resolution of the adaptation process. We conducted a retrospective study of the dissemination of the P.aeruginosa DK2 clone type among patients suffering from cystic fibrosis, sequencing the genomes of 45 isolates collected from 16 individuals over 35 years. Analysis of the genomes provides a high-resolution examination of the dynamics and mechanisms of the change in genetic content during the early stage of host adaptation by this P.aeruginosa strain as it adapts to the cystic fibrosis (CF) lung of several patients. Considerable genome reduction is detected predominantly through the deletion of large genomic regions, and up to 8% of the genome is deleted in one isolate. Compared with in vitro estimates the resulting average deletion rates are 12- to 36-fold higher. Deletions occur through both illegitimate and homologous recombination, but they are not IS element mediated as previously reported for early stage host adaptation. Uptake of novel DNA sequences during infection is limited as only one prophage region was putatively inserted in one isolate, demonstrating that early host adaptation is characterized by the reduction of genomic repertoire rather than acquisition of novel functions. Finally, we also describe the complete genome of this highly adapted pathogenic strain of P.aeruginosa to strengthen the genetic basis, which serves to help our understanding of microbial evolution in a natural environment."	
37670513	human genomics	International journal of stem cells	Differentiation and Characterization of Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane Conductance Regulator Knockout Human Pluripotent Stem Cells into Salivary Gland Epithelial Progenitors.	"The differentiation of pluripotent stem cells has been used to study disease mechanisms and development. We previously described a method for differentiating human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) into salivary gland epithelial progenitors (SGEPs). Here, cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) knockout hPSCs were differentiated into SGEPs derived from CFTR knockout hESCs (CF-SGEPs) using the same protocol to investigate whether the hPSC-derived SGEPs can model the characteristics of CF. CF-a disease that affects salivary gland (SG) function-is caused by mutations of the  gene. Firstly, we successfully generated CFTR knockout hPSCs with reduced CFTR protein expression using the CRISPR-Cas9 system. After 16 days of differentiation, the protein expression of CFTR decreased in SGEPs derived from CFTR knockout hESCs (CF-SGEPs). RNA-Seq revealed that multiple genes modulating SG development and function were down-regulated, and positive regulators of inflammation were up-regulated in CF-SGEPs, correlating with the salivary phenotype of CF patients. These results demonstrated that CFTR suppression disrupted the differentiation of hPSC-derived SGEPs, which modeled the SG development of CF patients. In summary, this study not only proved that the hPSC-derived SGEPs could serve as manipulable and readily accessible cell models for the study of SG developmental diseases but also opened up new avenues for the study of the CF mechanism."	
24631641	human genomics	The international journal of biochemistry & cell biology	Long noncoding RNA are aberrantly expressed in vivo in the cystic fibrosis bronchial epithelium.	"Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have emerged recently as key regulatory molecules with diverse roles at almost every level of the regulation of gene expression. The roles of these RNAs in the pathogenesis of cystic fibrosis (CF); a lethal multisystem, autosomal recessive disorder have yet to be explored. Our aim was to examine the expression profile of lncRNA, in the airway epithelium of people with CF. We examined the expression of 30,586 lncRNAs by microarray (Human LncRNA Array v3.0, Arraystar, Inc.), in vivo in bronchial cells isolated from endobronchial brushings obtained from CF and non-CF individuals. In total, we identified 1,063 lncRNAs with differential expression between CF and non-CF individuals (fold change ≥3, p≤0.001). The microarray also contained probes for ∼26,109 protein coding transcripts, of which 720 were differentially expressed between CF and non-CF brush samples (fold change ≥3, p≤0.001). Confirmation of a selection of differentially expressed coding mRNA and lncRNA transcripts such as XIST and TLR8 was achieved using qRT-PCR. Gene ontology bioinformatics analysis highlighted that many processes over-represented in the CF bronchial epithelium are related to inflammation. These data show a significantly altered lncRNA and mRNA expression profile in CF bronchial cells in vivo. Dysregulation of some of these lncRNAs may play important roles in the chronic infection and inflammation that exists in the lungs of people with CF."	
20083669	human genomics	"Journal of immunology (Baltimore, Md. : 1950)"	miR-126 is downregulated in cystic fibrosis airway epithelial cells and regulates TOM1 expression.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is one of the most common lethal genetic diseases in which the role of microRNAs has yet to be explored. Predicted to be regulated by miR-126, TOM1 (target of Myb1) has been shown to interact with Toll-interacting protein, forming a complex to regulate endosomal trafficking of ubiquitinated proteins. TOM1 has also been proposed as a negative regulator of IL-1beta and TNF-alpha-induced signaling pathways. MiR-126 is highly expressed in the lung, and we now show for the first time differential expression of miR-126 in CF versus non-CF airway epithelial cells both in vitro and in vivo. MiR-126 downregulation in CF bronchial epithelial cells correlated with a significant upregulation of TOM1 mRNA, both in vitro and in vivo when compared with their non-CF counterparts. Introduction of synthetic pre-miR-126 inhibited luciferase activity in a reporter system containing the full length 3'-untranslated region of TOM1 and resulted in decreased TOM1 protein production in CF bronchial epithelial cells. Following stimulation with LPS or IL-1beta, overexpression of TOM1 was found to downregulate NF-kappaB luciferase activity. Conversely, TOM1 knockdown resulted in a significant increase in NF-kappaB regulated IL-8 secretion. These data show that miR-126 is differentially regulated in CF versus non-CF airway epithelial cells and that TOM1 is a miR-126 target that may have an important role in regulating innate immune responses in the CF lung. To our knowledge, this study is the first to report of a role for TOM1 in the TLR2/4 signaling pathways and the first to describe microRNA involvement in CF."	
27222716	microbial genomics	New microbes and new infections	"Whole genome sequencing for deciphering the resistome of Chryseobacterium indologenes, an emerging multidrug-resistant bacterium isolated from a cystic fibrosis patient in Marseille, France."	"We decipher the resistome of Chryseobacterium indologenes MARS15, an emerging multidrug-resistant clinical strain, using the whole genome sequencing strategy. The bacterium was isolated from the sputum of a hospitalized patient with cystic fibrosis in the Timone Hospital in Marseille, France. Genome sequencing was done with Illumina MiSeq using a paired-end strategy. The in silico analysis was done by RAST, the resistome by the ARG-ANNOT database and detection of polyketide synthase (PKS) by ANTISMAH. The genome size of C. indologenes MARS15 is 4 972 580 bp with 36.4% GC content. This multidrug-resistant bacterium was resistant to all β-lactams, including imipenem, and also to colistin. The resistome of C. indologenes MARS15 includes Ambler class A and B β-lactams encoding bla CIA and bla IND-2 genes and MBL (metallo-β-lactamase) genes, the CAT (chloramphenicol acetyltransferase) gene and the multidrug efflux pump AcrB. Specific features include the presence of an urease operon, an intact prophage and a carotenoid biosynthesis pathway. Interestingly, we report for the first time in C. indologenes a PKS cluster that might be responsible for secondary metabolite biosynthesis, similar to erythromycin. The whole genome sequence analysis provides insight into the resistome and the discovery of new details, such as the PKS cluster."	
37066389	microbial genomics	bioRxiv : the preprint server for biology	Mrs4 loss of function in fungi during adaptation to the cystic fibrosis lung.	"The genetic disease cystic fibrosis (CF) frequently leads to chronic lung infections by bacteria and fungi. We identified three individuals with CF with persistent lung infections dominated by  (  )  . Whole genome sequencing analysis of multiple isolates from each infection found evidence for selection for mutants in the gene  in all three distinct lung-associated populations. In each population, we found one or two unfixed, non-synonymous mutations in  relative to the reference allele found in multiple environmental and clinical isolates including the type strain. Genetic and phenotypic analyses found that all evolved alleles led to loss of function of Mrs4, a mitochondrial iron transporter. RNA Seq analyses found that Mrs4 variants with decreased activity led to increased expression of genes involved in iron acquisition mechanisms in both low iron and replete iron conditions. Furthermore, surface iron reductase activity and intracellular iron was much higher in strains with Mrs4 loss of function variants. Parallel studies found that a subpopulation of a CF-associated  infection also had a non-synonymous loss of function mutation in  Together, these data suggest that  mutations may be beneficial during chronic CF lung infections in diverse fungi perhaps for the purposes of adaptation to an iron restricted environment with chronic infections."	
15812007	microbial genomics	Applied and environmental microbiology	High-temperature-induced transposition of insertion elements in burkholderia multivorans ATCC 17616.	"An efficient and quantitative method to analyze the transposition of various insertion sequence (IS) elements in Burkholderia multivorans ATCC 17616 was devised. pGEN500, a plasmid carrying a Bacillus subtilis-derived sacB gene, was introduced into ATCC 17616 cells, and 25% of their sucrose-resistant derivatives were found to carry various IS elements on pGEN500. A PCR-based experimental protocol, in which a mixture of several specific primer pairs was used, revealed that pGEN500 captured, in addition to five previously reported IS elements (IS401, IS402, IS406, IS407, and IS408), three novel IS elements, ISBmu1, ISBmu2, and ISBmu3. The global transposition frequency of these IS elements was enhanced more than sevenfold under a high-temperature condition (42 degrees C) but not under oxidative stress or starvation conditions. To our knowledge, this is the first report demonstrating the elevated transposition activities of several IS elements at a high temperature. The efficient experimental protocol developed in this study will be useful in quantitatively and simultaneously investigating various IS elements, as well as in capturing novel functional mobile elements from a wide variety of bacteria."	
22853952	human genomics	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	A microRNA network regulates expression and biosynthesis of wild-type and DeltaF508 mutant cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator.	"Production of functional proteins requires multiple steps, including gene transcription and posttranslational processing. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) can regulate individual stages of these processes. Despite the importance of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) channel for epithelial anion transport, how its expression is regulated remains uncertain. We discovered that miRNA-138 regulates CFTR expression through its interactions with the transcriptional regulatory protein SIN3A. Treating airway epithelia with an miR-138 mimic increased CFTR mRNA and also enhanced CFTR abundance and transepithelial Cl(-) permeability independent of elevated mRNA levels. An miR-138 anti-miR had the opposite effects. Importantly, miR-138 altered the expression of many genes encoding proteins that associate with CFTR and may influence its biosynthesis. The most common CFTR mutation, ΔF508, causes protein misfolding, protein degradation, and cystic fibrosis. Remarkably, manipulating the miR-138 regulatory network also improved biosynthesis of CFTR-ΔF508 and restored Cl(-) transport to cystic fibrosis airway epithelia. This miRNA-regulated network directs gene expression from the chromosome to the cell membrane, indicating that an individual miRNA can control a cellular process more broadly than recognized previously. This discovery also provides therapeutic avenues for restoring CFTR function to cells affected by the most common cystic fibrosis mutation."	
37511375	microbial genomics	International journal of molecular sciences	"{'i': 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa', '#text': 'Involvement of Acquired Tobramycin Resistance in the Shift to the Viable but Non-Culturable State in .'}"	"Persistent and viable but non-culturable (VBNC)  cells are mainly responsible for the recurrence and non-responsiveness to antibiotics of cystic fibrosis (CF) lung infections. The sub-inhibitory antibiotic concentrations found in the CF lung in between successive therapeutic cycles can trigger the entry into the VBNC state, albeit with a strain-specific pattern. Here, we analyzed the VBNC cell induction in the biofilms of two CF  isolates, exposed to starvation with/without antibiotics, and investigated the putative genetic determinants involved. Total viable bacterial cells were quantified by the validated -targeting qPCR protocol and the VBNC cells were estimated as the difference between qPCR and cultural counts. The isolates were both subjected to whole genome sequencing, with attention focused on their carriage of aminoglycoside resistance genes and on identifying mutated toxin-antitoxin and  systems. The obtained results suggest the variable contribution of different antibiotic resistance mechanisms to VBNC cell abundance, identifying a major contribution from tobramycin efflux, mediated by MexXY efflux pump overexpression. The genome analysis evidenced putative mutation hotspots, which deserve further investigation. Therefore, drug efflux could represent a crucial mechanism through which the VBNC state is entered and a potential target for anti-persistence strategies."	
29459038	human genomics	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Molecular characterization of gene regulatory networks in primary human tracheal and bronchial epithelial cells.	"Robust methods to culture primary airway epithelial cells were developed several decades ago and these cells provide the model of choice to investigate many diseases of the human lung. However, the molecular signature of cells from different regions of the airway epithelium has not been well characterized. We utilize DNase-seq and RNA-seq to examine the molecular signatures of primary cells derived from human tracheal and bronchial tissues, as well as healthy and diseased (cystic fibrosis (CF)) donor lung tissue. Our data reveal an airway cell signature that is divergent from other epithelial cell types and from common airway epithelial cell lines. The differences between tracheal and bronchial cells are clearly evident as are common regulatory features. Only minor variation is seen between bronchial cells from healthy or CF donors. These data are a valuable resource for functional genomics analysis of airway epithelial tissues in human disease."	
24201191	microbial genomics	Genome announcements	Draft Genome Sequence of Mycobacterium abscessus subsp. bolletii INCQS 00594.	"An epidemic of surgical-site infections by a single strain of Mycobacterium abscessus subsp. bolletii affected >1,700 patients in Brazil from 2004 to 2008. The genome of the epidemic prototype strain M. abscessus subsp. bolletii INCQS 00594, deposited in the collection of the National Institute for Health Quality Control (INCQS), was sequenced."	
30135315	human genomics	JCI insight	Wilms' tumor 1 drives fibroproliferation and myofibroblast transformation in severe fibrotic lung disease.	"Wilms' tumor 1 (WT1) is a critical transcriptional regulator of mesothelial cells during lung development but is downregulated in postnatal stages and adult lungs. We recently showed that WT1 is upregulated in both mesothelial cells and mesenchymal cells in the pathogenesis of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), a fatal fibrotic lung disease. Although WT1-positive cell accumulation leading to severe fibrotic lung disease has been studied, the role of WT1 in fibroblast activation and pulmonary fibrosis remains elusive. Here, we show that WT1 functions as a positive regulator of fibroblast activation, including fibroproliferation, myofibroblast transformation, and extracellular matrix (ECM) production. Chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments indicate that WT1 binds directly to the promoter DNA sequence of α-smooth muscle actin (αSMA) to induce myofibroblast transformation. In support, the genetic lineage tracing identifies WT1 as a key driver of mesothelial-to-myofibroblast and fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transformation. Importantly, the partial loss of WT1 was sufficient to attenuate myofibroblast accumulation and pulmonary fibrosis in vivo. Further, our coculture studies show that WT1 upregulation leads to non-cell autonomous effects on neighboring cells. Thus, our data uncovered a pathogenic role of WT1 in IPF by promoting fibroblast activation in the peripheral areas of the lung and as a target for therapeutic intervention."	
22169360	human genomics	Thorax	A genome-wide analysis of open chromatin in human tracheal epithelial cells reveals novel candidate regulatory elements for lung function.	"Distal cell-type-specific regulatory elements may be located at very large distances from the genes that they control and are often hidden within intergenic regions or in introns of other genes. The development of methods that enable mapping of regions of open chromatin genome wide has greatly advanced the identification and characterisation of these elements. Here we use DNase I hypersensitivity mapping followed by deep sequencing (DNase-seq) to generate a map of open chromatin in primary human tracheal epithelial (HTE) cells and use bioinformatic approaches to characterise the distribution of these sites within the genome and with respect to gene promoters, intronic and intergenic regions. Genes with HTE-selective open chromatin at their promoters were associated with multiple pathways of epithelial function and differentiation. The data predict novel cell-type-specific regulatory elements for genes involved in HTE cell function, such as structural proteins and ion channels, and the transcription factors that may interact with them to control gene expression. Moreover, the map of open chromatin can identify the location of potentially critical regulatory elements in genome-wide association studies (GWAS) in which the strongest association is with single nucleotide polymorphisms in non-coding regions of the genome. We demonstrate its relevance to a recent GWAS that identifies modifiers of cystic fibrosis lung disease severity. Since HTE cells have many functional similarities with bronchial epithelial cells and other differentiated cells in the respiratory epithelium, these data are of direct relevance to elucidating the molecular basis of normal lung function and lung disease."	
20962773	human genomics	Mucosal immunology	Reactive oxygen species mediate inflammatory cytokine release and EGFR-dependent mucin secretion in airway epithelial cells exposed to Pseudomonas pyocyanin.	"Despite the long-appreciated in vivo role of the redox-active virulence factor pyocyanin in Pseudomonas airway infections and the importance of airway epithelial cells in combating bacterial pathogens, little is known about pyocyanin's effect on airway epithelial cells. We find that exposure of bronchiolar epithelial cells to pyocyanin results in MUC2/MUC5AC induction and mucin secretion through release of inflammatory cytokines and growth factors (interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, heparin-bound epidermal growth factor, tissue growth factor-α, tumor necrosis factor-α) that activate the epidermal growth factor receptor pathway. These changes are mediated by reactive oxygen species produced by pyocyanin. Microarray analysis identified 286 pyocyanin-induced genes in airway epithelial cells, including many inflammatory mediators elevated in cystic fibrosis (granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), granulocyte-monocyte CSF, chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 1 (CXCL1), serum amyloid, IL-23) and several novel pyocyanin-responsive genes of potential importance in the infection process (IL-24, CXCL2, CXCL3, CCL20, CXCR4). This comprehensive study uncovers numerous details of pyocyanin's proinflammatory action and establishes airway epithelial cells as key responders to this microbial toxin."	
34188051	microbial genomics	Nature communications	The bacterial toxin ExoU requires a host trafficking chaperone for transportation and to induce necrosis.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa can cause nosocomial infections, especially in ventilated or cystic fibrosis patients. Highly pathogenic isolates express the phospholipase ExoU, an effector of the type III secretion system that acts on plasma membrane lipids, causing membrane rupture and host cell necrosis. Here, we use a genome-wide screen to discover that ExoU requires DNAJC5, a host chaperone, for its necrotic activity. DNAJC5 is known to participate in an unconventional secretory pathway for misfolded proteins involving anterograde vesicular trafficking. We show that DNAJC5-deficient human cells, or Drosophila flies knocked-down for the DNAJC5 orthologue, are largely resistant to ExoU-dependent virulence. ExoU colocalizes with DNAJC5-positive vesicles in the host cytoplasm. DNAJC5 mutations preventing vesicle trafficking (previously identified in adult neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis, a human congenital disease) inhibit ExoU-dependent cell lysis. Our results suggest that, once injected into the host cytoplasm, ExoU docks to DNAJC5-positive secretory vesicles to reach the plasma membrane, where it can exert its phospholipase activity."	
26048733	microbial genomics	Pathogens and disease	High variability in quorum quenching and growth inhibition by furanone C-30 in Pseudomonas aeruginosa clinical isolates from cystic fibrosis patients.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa colonizes the lungs of cystic fibrosis patients causing severe damage. This bacterium is intrinsically resistant to antibiotics and shows resistance against new antimicrobials and its virulence is controlled by the quorum-sensing response. Thus, attenuating its virulence by quorum quenching instead of inhibiting its growth has been proposed to minimize resistance; however, resistance against the canonical quorum quencher furanone C-30 can be achieved by mutations leading to increased efflux. In the present work, the effect of C-30 in the attenuation of the QS-controlled virulence factors elastase and pyocyanin was investigated in 50 isolates from cystic fibrosis patients. The results demonstrate that there is a high variability in the expression of both elastase and pyocyanin and that there are many naturally resistant C-30 strains. We report that the main mechanism of C-30 resistance in these strains was not due to enhanced efflux but a lack of permeability. Moreover, C-30 strongly inhibited the growth of several of the isolates studied, thus imposing high selective pressure for the generation of resistance."	
25676757	microbial genomics	Genome announcements	Draft Genome Sequences of Two Burkholderia multivorans Sequential Isolates from a Chronic Lung Infection of a Cystic Fibrosis Patient.	"Burkholderia multivorans belongs to the Burkholderia cepacia complex, which comprises opportunistic pathogens infecting cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. Here, we report the genome sequences and annotations of two sequential B. multivorans clinical isolates (D2095 and D2214) displaying different traits. The differences in the genomic contents of these isolates may provide clues regarding the evolution of B. multivorans within the airways of a CF patient."	
36794958	human genomics	mSphere	A Genome-Wide Screen in Macrophages Defines Host Genes Regulating the Uptake of Mycobacterium abscessus.	"The interactions between a host cell and a pathogen can dictate disease outcomes and are important targets for host-directed therapies. Mycobacterium abscessus (Mab) is a highly antibiotic resistant, rapidly growing nontuberculous mycobacterium that infects patients with chronic lung diseases. Mab can infect host immune cells, such as macrophages, which contribute to its pathogenesis. However, our understanding of initial host-Mab interactions remains unclear. Here, we developed a functional genetic approach to define these host-Mab interactions by coupling a Mab fluorescent reporter with a genome-wide knockout library in murine macrophages. We used this approach to conduct a forward genetic screen to define host genes that contribute to the uptake of Mab by macrophages. We identified known regulators of phagocytosis, such as the integrin ITGB2, and uncovered a key requirement for glycosaminoglycan (sGAG) synthesis for macrophages to efficiently take up Mab. CRISPR-Cas9 targeting of three key sGAG biosynthesis regulators,  resulted in reduced uptake of both smooth and rough Mab variants by macrophages. Mechanistic studies suggest that sGAGs function upstream of pathogen engulfment and are required for the uptake of Mab, but not Escherichia coli or latex beads. Further investigation found that the loss of sGAGs reduced the surface expression, but not the mRNA expression, of key integrins, suggesting an important role for sGAGs in modulating surface receptor availability. Together, these studies globally define and characterize important regulators of macrophage-Mab interactions and are a first step to understanding host genes that contribute to Mab pathogenesis and disease.  Pathogen interactions with immune cells like macrophages contribute to pathogenesis, yet the mechanisms underlying these interactions remain largely undefined. For emerging respiratory pathogens, like Mycobacterium abscessus, understanding these host-pathogen interactions is important to fully understand disease progression. Given that M. abscessus is broadly recalcitrant to antibiotic treatments, new therapeutic approaches are needed. Here, we leveraged a genome-wide knockout library in murine macrophages to globally define host genes required for M. abscessus uptake. We identified new macrophage uptake regulators during M. abscessus infection, including a subset of integrins and the glycosaminoglycan synthesis (sGAG) pathway. While ionic characteristics of sGAGs are known to drive pathogen-cell interactions, we discovered a previously unrecognized requirement for sGAGs to maintain robust surface expression of key uptake receptors. Thus, we developed a flexible forward-genetic pipeline to define important interactions during M. abscessus infection and more broadly identified a new mechanism by which sGAGs control pathogen uptake."	
30150613	microbial genomics	Nature communications	High-resolution in situ transcriptomics of Pseudomonas aeruginosa unveils genotype independent patho-phenotypes in cystic fibrosis lungs.	"Life-long bacterial infections in cystic fibrosis (CF) airways constitute an excellent model both for persistent infections and for microbial adaptive evolution in complex dynamic environments. Using high-resolution transcriptomics applied on CF sputum, we profile transcriptional phenotypes of Pseudomonas aeruginosa populations in patho-physiological conditions. Here we show that the soft-core genome of genetically distinct populations, while maintaining transcriptional flexibility, shares a common expression program tied to the lungs environment. We identify genetically independent traits defining P. aeruginosa physiology in vivo, documenting the connection between several previously identified mutations in CF isolates and some of the convergent phenotypes known to develop in later stages of the infection. In addition, our data highlight to what extent this organism can exploit its extensive repertoire of physiological pathways to acclimate to a new niche and suggest how alternative nutrients produced in the lungs may be utilized in unexpected metabolic contexts."	
36108628	pig genomics	Developmental cell	Pulmonary neuroendocrine cells sense succinate to stimulate myoepithelial cell contraction.	"Pulmonary neuroendocrine cells (PNECs) are rare airway cells with potential sensory capacity linked to vagal neurons and immune cells. How PNECs sense and respond to external stimuli remains poorly understood. We discovered PNECs located within pig and human submucosal glands, a tissue that produces much of the mucus that defends the lung. These PNECs sense succinate, an inflammatory molecule in liquid lining the airway surface. The results indicate that succinate migrates down the submucosal gland duct to the acinus, where it triggers apical succinate receptors, causing PNECs to release ATP. The short-range ATP signal stimulates the contraction of myoepithelial cells wrapped tightly around the submucosal glands. Succinate-triggered gland contraction may complement the action of neurotransmitters that induce mucus release but not gland contraction to promote mucus ejection onto the airway surface. These findings identify a local circuit in which rare PNECs within submucosal glands sense an environmental cue to orchestrate the function of airway glands."	
30759402	human genomics	Cell reports	PyMINEr Finds Gene and Autocrine-Paracrine Networks from Human Islet scRNA-Seq.	"Toolsets available for in-depth analysis of scRNA-seq datasets by biologists with little informatics experience is limited. Here, we describe an informatics tool (PyMINEr) that fully automates cell type identification, cell type-specific pathway analyses, graph theory-based analysis of gene regulation, and detection of autocrine-paracrine signaling networks in silico. We applied PyMINEr to interrogate human pancreatic islet scRNA-seq datasets and discovered several features of co-expression graphs, including concordance of scRNA-seq-graph structure with both protein-protein interactions and 3D genomic architecture, association of high-connectivity and low-expression genes with cell type enrichment, and potential for the graph structure to clarify potential etiologies of enigmatic disease-associated variants. We further created a consensus co-expression network and autocrine-paracrine signaling networks within and across islet cell types from seven datasets. PyMINEr correctly identified changes in BMP-WNT signaling associated with cystic fibrosis pancreatic acinar cell loss. This proof-of-principle study demonstrates that the PyMINEr framework will be a valuable resource for scRNA-seq analyses."	
28446558	microbial genomics	The European respiratory journal	"{'i': 'Pseudomonas aeruginosa', '#text': 'adaptation and diversification in the non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis lung.'}"	"To characterise  populations during chronic lung infections of non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis patients, we used whole-genome sequencing to 1) assess the diversity of  and the prevalence of multilineage infections; 2) seek evidence for cross-infection or common source acquisition; and 3) characterise  adaptations.189 isolates, obtained from the sputa of 91 patients attending 16 adult bronchiectasis centres in the UK, were whole-genome sequenced.Bronchiectasis isolates were representative of the wider  population. Of 24 patients from whom multiple isolates were examined, there were seven examples of multilineage infections, probably arising from multiple infection events. The number of nucleotide variants between genomes of isolates from different patients was in some cases similar to the variations observed between isolates from individual patients, implying the possible occurrence of cross-infection or common source acquisition.Our data indicate that during infections of bronchiectasis patients,  populations adapt by accumulating loss-of-function mutations, leading to changes in phenotypes including different modes of iron acquisition and variations in biofilm-associated polysaccharides. The within-population diversification suggests that larger scale longitudinal surveillance studies will be required to capture cross-infection or common source acquisition events at an early stage."	
22679004	human genomics	American journal of physiology. Gastrointestinal and liver physiology	Altered de novo lipogenesis contributes to low adipose stores in cystic fibrosis mice.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) mouse models exhibit exocrine pancreatic function, yet they do not develop adipose stores to the levels of non-CF mice. CF mice homozygous for the Cftr mutation (F508del) at 3 wk (postweaning) and 6 wk (young adult) of age had markedly less adipose tissue than non-CF mice. Food intake was markedly lower in 3-wk-old CF mice but normalized by 6 wk of age. Both 3- and 6-wk-old mice had dietary lipid absorption and fecal lipid excretion comparable to non-CF mice. Hepatic de novo lipogenesis (DNL), determined by (2)H incorporation, was reduced in CF mice. At 3 wk, F508del mice had significantly decreased DNL of palmitate and stearate, by 83% and 80%, respectively. By 6 wk, DNL rates in non-CF mice remained unchanged compared with 3-wk-old mice, while DNL rates of F508del mice were still reduced, by 33% and 40%, respectively. Adipose tissue fatty acid (FA) profiles were comparable in CF and non-CF mice, indicating that adipose differences are quantitative, not qualitative. A correspondingly lower content of (2)H-labeled FA was found in CF adipose tissue, consistent with reduced deposition of newly made hepatic triglycerides and/or decreased adipose tissue lipogenesis. Hepatic transcriptome analysis revealed lower mRNA expression from several genes involved in FA biosynthesis, suggesting downregulation of this pathway as a mechanism for the reduced lipogenesis. These novel data provide a model for altered lipid metabolism in CF, independent of malabsorption, and may partly explain the inability of pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy to completely restore normal body mass to CF patients."	
38448662	human genomics	Nature biotechnology	Near-cognate tRNAs increase the efficiency and precision of pseudouridine-mediated readthrough of premature termination codons.	"Programmable RNA pseudouridylation has emerged as a new type of RNA base editor to suppress premature termination codons (PTCs) that can lead to truncated and nonfunctional proteins. However, current methods to correct disease-associated PTCs suffer from low efficiency and limited precision. Here we develop RESTART v3, which uses near-cognate tRNAs to improve the readthrough efficiency of pseudouridine-modified PTCs. We show an average of ~5-fold (range: 2.1- to 9.5-fold) higher editing efficiency than RESTART v2 in cultured cells and achieve functional PTC readthrough in disease cell models of cystic fibrosis and Hurler syndrome. Furthermore, RESTART v3 enables accurate incorporation of the original amino acid for nearly half of the PTC sites, considering the naturally occurring frequencies of sense-to-nonsense codons, without affecting normal termination codons. Although off-target sites were detected, we did not observe changes to the coding information or the expression level of transcripts, and the overall natural tRNA abundance remained constant."	
38035088	human genomics	Frontiers in immunology	Loss of CFTR function in macrophages alters the cell transcriptional program and delays lung resolution of inflammation.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an autosomal recessive genetic disorder caused by mutations in the CF Transmembrane-conductance Regulator (CFTR) gene. The most severe pathologies of CF occur in the lung, manifesting as chronic bacterial infection, persistent neutrophilic inflammation, and mucopurulent airway obstruction. Despite increasing knowledge of the CF primary defect and the resulting clinical sequelae, the relationship between the CFTR loss of function and the neutrophilic inflammation remains incompletely understood. Here, we report that loss of CFTR function in macrophages causes extended lung inflammation. After intratracheal inoculation with , mice with a macrophage-specific -knockout (Mac-CF) were able to mount an effective host defense to clear the bacterial infection. However, three days post-inoculation, Mac-CF lungs demonstrated significantly more neutrophil infiltration and higher levels of inflammatory cytokines, suggesting that Mac-CF mice had a slower resolution of inflammation. Single-cell RNA sequencing revealed that absence of CFTR in the macrophages altered the cell transcriptional program, affecting the cell inflammatory and immune responses, antioxidant system, and mitochondrial respiration. Thus, loss of CFTR function in macrophages influences cell homeostasis, leading to a dysregulated cellular response to infection that may exacerbate CF lung disease."	
16207250	human genomics	Cellular microbiology	Genome-wide analysis of host responses to the Pseudomonas aeruginosa type III secretion system yields synergistic effects.	"The type III secretion system (TTSS) is a dedicated bacterial pathogen protein targeting system that directly affects host cell signalling and response pathways. Our goal was to identify host responses to the Pseudomonas aeruginosa effectors, introduced into target cells utilizing the TTSS. We carried out expression profiling of a human lung pneumocyte cell line A549 exposed to isogenic mutants of P. aeruginosa PAK lacking individual or a combination of TTSS components. We then devised a data analysis method to isolate the key responses to specific secreted bacterial effector proteins as well as components of the TTSS machinery. Individually, the effector proteins elicited host responses consistent with their known functions, many of which were cell cycle-related. However, our analysis has shown that the effector proteins elicit a distinct host transcriptional response when present in combination, suggesting a synergistic effect. Furthermore, the pattern of host transcriptional responses is consistent with the pore forming ability of the TTSS needle complex. This study shows that the individual components of the TTSS define an integrated system and that a systems biology approach is required to fully understand the complex interplay between pathogen and host."	
21458401	human genomics	Cell stem cell	Mutant human embryonic stem cells reveal neurite and synapse formation defects in type 1 myotonic dystrophy.	"Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) is a multisystem disorder affecting a variety of organs, including the central nervous system. By using neuronal progeny derived from human embryonic stem cells carrying the causal DM1 mutation, we have identified an early developmental defect in genes involved in neurite formation and the establishment of neuromuscular connections. Differential gene expression profiling and quantitative RT-PCR revealed decreased expression of two members of the SLITRK family in DM1 neural cells and in DM1 brain biopsies. In addition, DM1 motoneuron/muscle cell cocultures showed alterations that are consistent with the known role of SLITRK genes in neurite outgrowth, neuritogenesis, and synaptogenesis. Rescue and knockdown experiments suggested that the functional defects can be directly attributed to SLITRK misexpression. These neuropathological mechanisms may be clinically significant for the functional changes in neuromuscular connections associated with DM1."	
23667230	microbial genomics	Journal of bacteriology	Anr and its activation by PlcH activity in Pseudomonas aeruginosa host colonization and virulence.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa hemolytic phospholipase C (PlcH) degrades phosphatidylcholine (PC), an abundant lipid in cell membranes and lung surfactant. A ΔplcHR mutant, known to be defective in virulence in animal models, was less able to colonize epithelial cell monolayers and was defective in biofilm formation on plastic when grown in lung surfactant. Microarray analyses found that strains defective in PlcH production had lower levels of Anr-regulated transcripts than the wild type. PC degradation stimulated the Anr regulon in an Anr-dependent manner under conditions where Anr activity was submaximal because of the presence of oxygen. Two PC catabolites, choline and glycine betaine (GB), were sufficient to stimulate Anr activity, and their catabolism was required for Anr activation. The addition of choline or GB to glucose-containing medium did not alter Anr protein levels, growth rates, or respiratory activity, and Anr activation could not be attributed to the osmoprotectant functions of GB. The Δanr mutant was defective in virulence in a mouse pneumonia model. Several lines of evidence indicate that Anr is important for the colonization of biotic and abiotic surfaces in both P. aeruginosa PAO1 and PA14 and that increases in Anr activity resulted in enhanced biofilm formation. Our data suggest that PlcH activity promotes Anr activity in oxic environments and that Anr activity contributes to virulence, even in the acute infection phase, where low oxygen tensions are not expected. This finding highlights the relationships among in vivo bacterial metabolism, the activity of the oxygen-sensitive regulator Anr, and virulence."	
38580646	human genomics	Nature communications	Translation velocity determines the efficacy of engineered suppressor tRNAs on pathogenic nonsense mutations.	"Nonsense mutations - the underlying cause of approximately 11% of all genetic diseases - prematurely terminate protein synthesis by mutating a sense codon to a premature stop or termination codon (PTC). An emerging therapeutic strategy to suppress nonsense defects is to engineer sense-codon decoding tRNAs to readthrough and restore translation at PTCs. However, the readthrough efficiency of the engineered suppressor tRNAs (sup-tRNAs) largely varies in a tissue- and sequence context-dependent manner and has not yet yielded optimal clinical efficacy for many nonsense mutations. Here, we systematically analyze the suppression efficacy at various pathogenic nonsense mutations. We discover that the translation velocity of the sequence upstream of PTCs modulates the sup-tRNA readthrough efficacy. The PTCs most refractory to suppression are embedded in a sequence context translated with an abrupt reversal of the translation speed leading to ribosomal collisions. Moreover, modeling translation velocity using Ribo-seq data can accurately predict the suppression efficacy at PTCs. These results reveal previously unknown molecular signatures contributing to genotype-phenotype relationships and treatment-response heterogeneity, and provide the framework for the development of personalized tRNA-based gene therapies."	
26484076	human genomics	Genomics data	CTCF regulates positioning of the human cystic fibrosis gene in association with a histone deacetylase.	"The nuclear positioning of mammalian genes often correlates with their functional state. For instance, the human cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene associates with the nuclear periphery in its inactive state, but occupies interior positions when active. Treatment with the histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin a (TSA) changes the radial positioning of the CFTR gene in HeLa S3 cells. The gene relocates from the nuclear periphery to the nuclear interior. In Calu-3 cells the gene is located in the nuclear interior. To identify potential regulatory elements for the positioning of CFTR, the histone H3 and H4 acetylation patterns of untreated and TSA-treated HeLa S3 and untreated Calu-3 cells were determined by ChIP-chip. Here is a detailed description of the datasets associated with the study by Muck et al. published in the Journal of Cellular Biochemistry in 2012."	
36510002	human genomics	Gene therapy	An ectopic enhancer restores CFTR expression through de novo chromatin looping.	"Transcription of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene is regulated by both ubiquitous and cell-type selective cis-regulatory elements (CREs). These CREs include extragenic and intronic enhancers that bind lineage-specific transcription factors, and architectural protein-marked structural elements. Deletion of the airway-selective -35 kb enhancer in 16HBE14o lung epithelial cells was shown earlier to disrupt normal enhancer-promoter looping at the CFTR locus and nearly abolish its expression. Using a 16HBE14o clone that lacks the endogenous -35 kb CRE, we explore the impact of relocating the functional core of this element to an ectopic site in intron 1. The -35 kb sequence establishes a de novo enhancer signature in chromatin at the insertion site, and augments CFTR expression, albeit not fully restoring WT levels. The relocated -35 kb enhancer also initiates de novo chromatin contacts with the CFTR promoter and other known CFTR CREs. These results are broadly relevant to therapeutic gene editing."	
34847078	human genomics	The Journal of clinical investigation	Anakinra restores cellular proteostasis by coupling mitochondrial redox balance to autophagy.	"Autophagy selectively degrades aggregation-prone misfolded proteins caused by defective cellular proteostasis. However, the complexity of autophagy may prevent the full appreciation of how its modulation could be used as a therapeutic strategy in disease management. Here, we define a molecular pathway through which recombinant IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra, anakinra) affects cellular proteostasis independently from the IL-1 receptor (IL-1R1). Anakinra promoted H2O2-driven autophagy through a xenobiotic sensing pathway involving the aryl hydrocarbon receptor that, activated through the indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1-kynurenine pathway, transcriptionally activated NADPH oxidase 4 independent of the IL-1R1. By coupling the mitochondrial redox balance to autophagy, anakinra improved the dysregulated proteostasis network in murine and human cystic fibrosis. We anticipate that anakinra may represent a therapeutic option in addition to its IL-1R1-dependent antiinflammatory properties by acting at the intersection of mitochondrial oxidative stress and autophagy with the capacity to restore conditions in which defective proteostasis leads to human disease."	
27316687	human genomics	"Journal of immunology (Baltimore, Md. : 1950)"	Stromelysin-2 (MMP10) Moderates Inflammation by Controlling Macrophage Activation.	"Several members of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family control a range of immune processes, such as leukocyte influx and chemokine activity. Stromelysin-2 (MMP10) is expressed by macrophages in numerous tissues after injury; however, little is known of its function. In this study, we report that MMP10 is expressed by macrophages in human lungs from patients with cystic fibrosis and induced in mouse macrophages in response to Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection both in vivo and by isolated resident alveolar and bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDM). Our data indicates that macrophage MMP10 serves a beneficial function in response to acute infection. Whereas wild-type mice survived infection with minimal morbidity, 50% of Mmp10(-/-) mice died and all showed sustained weight loss (morbidity). Although bacterial clearance and neutrophil influx did not differ between genotypes, macrophage numbers were ∼3-fold greater in infected Mmp10(-/-) lungs than in wild-types. Adoptive transfer of wild-type BMDM normalized infection-induced morbidity in Mmp10(-/-) recipients to wild-type levels, demonstrating that the protective effect of MMP10 was due to its production by macrophages. Both in vivo and in cultured alveolar macrophages and BMDM, expression of several M1 macrophage markers was elevated, whereas M2 markers were reduced in Mmp10(-/-) tissue and cells. Global gene expression analysis revealed that infection-mediated transcriptional changes persisted in Mmp10(-/-) BMDM long after they were downregulated in wild-type cells. These results indicate that MMP10 serves a beneficial role in response to acute infection by moderating the proinflammatory response of resident and infiltrating macrophages."	
22081229	microbial genomics	Nature genetics	Parallel bacterial evolution within multiple patients identifies candidate pathogenicity genes.	"Bacterial pathogens evolve during the infection of their human host(1-8), but separating adaptive and neutral mutations remains challenging(9-11). Here we identify bacterial genes under adaptive evolution by tracking recurrent patterns of mutations in the same pathogenic strain during the infection of multiple individuals. We conducted a retrospective study of a Burkholderia dolosa outbreak among subjects with cystic fibrosis, sequencing the genomes of 112 isolates collected from 14 individuals over 16 years. We find that 17 bacterial genes acquired nonsynonymous mutations in multiple individuals, which indicates parallel adaptive evolution. Mutations in these genes affect important pathogenic phenotypes, including antibiotic resistance and bacterial membrane composition and implicate oxygen-dependent regulation as paramount in lung infections. Several genes have not previously been implicated in pathogenesis and may represent new therapeutic targets. The identification of parallel molecular evolution as a pathogen spreads among multiple individuals points to the key selection forces it experiences within human hosts."	
21333573	human genomics	Molecular genetics and metabolism	MicroRNA profiling of cystic fibrosis intestinal disease in mice.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) intestinal disease is characterized by alterations in processes such as proliferation and apoptosis which are known to be regulated in part by microRNAs. Herein, we completed microRNA expression profiling of the intestinal tissue from the cystic fibrosis mouse model of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (Cftr) deficient mice (BALBc/J Cftr(tm1UNC)), relative to that of wildtype littermates, to determine whether changes in microRNA expression level are part of this phenotype. We identified 24 microRNAs to be significantly differentially expressed in tissue from CF mice compared to wildtype, with the higher expression in tissue from CF mice. These data were confirmed with real time PCR measurements. A comparison of the list of genes previously reported to have decreased expression in the BALB×C57BL/6J F2 CF intestine to that of genes putatively targeted by the 24 microRNAs, determined from target prediction software, revealed 155 of the 759 genes of the expression profile (20.4%) to overlap with predicted targets, which is significantly more than the 100 genes expected by chance (p=1×10(-8)). Pathway analysis identified these common genes to function in phosphatase and tensin homolog-, protein kinase A-, phosphoinositide-3 kinase/Akt- and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha/retinoid X receptor alpha signaling pathways, among others, and through real time PCR experiments genes of these pathways were demonstrated to have lower expression in the BALB CF intestine. We conclude that altered microRNA expression is a feature which putatively influences both metabolic abnormalities and the altered tissue homeostasis component of CF intestinal disease."	
22887680	microbial genomics	Journal of bacteriology	"Genome sequence of Microbacterium yannicii, a bacterium isolated from a cystic fibrosis patient."	"Microbacterium yannicii is a Gram-positive, aerobic, yellow-pigmented, rod-shaped, nonmotile, oxidase-negative, and catalase-positive bacterium isolated on Columbia colistin-nalidixic acid (CNA) agar with 5% sheep blood from the sputum of a cystic fibrosis patient. The present study reports the draft genome of a Microbacterium yannicii strain."	
36219481	human genomics	JCI insight	Airway surface hyperviscosity and defective mucociliary transport by IL-17/TNF-α are corrected by β-adrenergic stimulus.	"The fluid covering the surface of airway epithelia represents a first barrier against pathogens. The chemical and physical properties of the airway surface fluid are controlled by the activity of ion channels and transporters. In cystic fibrosis (CF), loss of CFTR chloride channel function causes airway surface dehydration, bacterial infection, and inflammation. We investigated the effects of IL-17A plus TNF-α, 2 cytokines with relevant roles in CF and other chronic lung diseases. Transcriptome analysis revealed a profound change with upregulation of several genes involved in ion transport, antibacterial defense, and neutrophil recruitment. At the functional level, bronchial epithelia treated in vitro with the cytokine combination showed upregulation of ENaC channel, ATP12A proton pump, ADRB2 β-adrenergic receptor, and SLC26A4 anion exchanger. The overall result of IL-17A/TNF-α treatment was hyperviscosity of the airway surface, as demonstrated by fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) experiments. Importantly, stimulation with a β-adrenergic agonist switched airway surface to a low-viscosity state in non-CF but not in CF epithelia. Our study suggests that CF lung disease is sustained by a vicious cycle in which epithelia cannot exit from the hyperviscous state, thus perpetuating the proinflammatory airway surface condition."	
30069046	human genomics	Nature	A single-cell atlas of the airway epithelium reveals the CFTR-rich pulmonary ionocyte.	"The functions of epithelial tissues are dictated by the types, abundance and distribution of the differentiated cells they contain. Attempts to restore tissue function after damage require knowledge of how physiological tasks are distributed among cell types, and how cell states vary between homeostasis, injury-repair and disease. In the conducting airway, a heterogeneous basal cell population gives rise to specialized luminal cells that perform mucociliary clearance. Here we perform single-cell profiling of human bronchial epithelial cells and mouse tracheal epithelial cells to obtain a comprehensive census of cell types in the conducting airway and their behaviour in homeostasis and regeneration. Our analysis reveals cell states that represent known and novel cell populations, delineates their heterogeneity and identifies distinct differentiation trajectories during homeostasis and tissue repair. Finally, we identified a novel, rare cell type that we call the 'pulmonary ionocyte', which co-expresses FOXI1, multiple subunits of the vacuolar-type H-ATPase (V-ATPase) and CFTR, the gene that is mutated in cystic fibrosis. Using immunofluorescence, modulation of signalling pathways and electrophysiology, we show that Notch signalling is necessary and FOXI1 expression is sufficient to drive the production of the pulmonary ionocyte, and that the pulmonary ionocyte is a major source of CFTR activity in the conducting airway epithelium."	
32761869	human genomics	EMBO molecular medicine	Inhibition of Aurora Kinase B attenuates fibroblast activation and pulmonary fibrosis.	"Fibroblast activation including proliferation, survival, and ECM production is central to initiation and maintenance of fibrotic lesions in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). However, druggable molecules that target fibroblast activation remain limited. In this study, we show that multiple pro-fibrotic growth factors, including TGFα, CTGF, and IGF1, increase aurora kinase B (AURKB) expression and activity in fibroblasts. Mechanistically, we demonstrate that Wilms tumor 1 (WT1) is a key transcription factor that mediates TGFα-driven AURKB upregulation in fibroblasts. Importantly, we found that inhibition of AURKB expression or activity is sufficient to attenuate fibroblast activation. We show that fibrosis induced by TGFα is highly dependent on AURKB expression and treating TGFα mice with barasertib, an AURKB inhibitor, reverses fibroblast activation, and pulmonary fibrosis. Barasertib similarly attenuated fibrosis in the bleomycin model of pulmonary fibrosis. Together, our preclinical studies provide important proof-of-concept that demonstrate barasertib as a possible intervention therapy for IPF."	
28733286	human genomics	Applied and environmental microbiology	Regulator LdhR and d-Lactate Dehydrogenase LdhA of Burkholderia multivorans Play Roles in Carbon Overflow and in Planktonic Cellular Aggregate Formation.	"LysR-type transcriptional regulators (LTTRs) are the most commonly found regulators in  complex, comprising opportunistic pathogens causing chronic respiratory infections in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. Despite LTTRs being global regulators of pathogenicity in several types of bacteria, few have been characterized in  Here, we show that gene  of  encoding an LTTR is cotranscribed with  encoding a d-lactate dehydrogenase and evaluate their implication in virulence traits such as exopolysaccharide (EPS) synthesis and biofilm formation. A comparison of the wild type (WT) and its isogenic Δ mutant grown in medium with 2% d-glucose revealed a negative impact on EPS biosynthesis and on cell viability in the presence of LdhR. The loss of viability in WT cells was caused by intracellular acidification as a consequence of the cumulative secretion of organic acids, including d-lactate, which was absent from the Δ mutant supernatant. Furthermore, LdhR is implicated in the formation of planktonic cellular aggregates. WT cell aggregates reached 1,000 μm in size after 24 h in liquid cultures, in contrast to Δ mutant aggregates that never grew more than 60 μm. The overexpression of d-lactate dehydrogenase LdhA in the Δ mutant partially restored the formed aggregate size, suggesting a role for fermentation inside aggregates. Similar results were obtained for surface-attached biofilms, with WT cells producing more biofilm. A systematic evaluation of planktonic aggregates in  CF clinical isolates showed aggregates in 40 of 74. As CF patients' lung environments are microaerophilic and bacteria are found as free aggregates/biofilms, LdhR and LdhA might have central roles in adapting to this environment. Cystic fibrosis patients often suffer from chronic respiratory infections caused by several types of microorganisms. Among them are the  complex bacteria, which cause progressive deterioration of lung function that, in some patients, might develop into fatal necrotizing pneumoniae with bacteremia, known as ""cepacia syndrome.""  pathogenesis is multifactorial as they express several virulence factors, form biofilms, and are highly resistant to antimicrobial compounds, making their eradication from the CF patients' airways very difficult. As  is commonly found in CF lungs in the form of cell aggregates and biofilms, the need to investigate the mechanisms of cellular aggregation is obvious. In this study, we demonstrate the importance of a d-lactate dehydrogenase and a regulator in regulating carbon overflow, cellular aggregates, and surface-attached biofilm formation. This not only enhances our understanding of  pathogenesis but can also lead to the development of drugs against these proteins to circumvent biofilm formation."	
26755627	microbial genomics	Journal of bacteriology	The Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 Two-Component Regulator CarSR Regulates Calcium Homeostasis and Calcium-Induced Virulence Factor Production through Its Regulatory Targets CarO and CarP.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic human pathogen that causes severe, life-threatening infections in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF), endocarditis, wounds, or artificial implants. During CF pulmonary infections, P. aeruginosa often encounters environments where the levels of calcium (Ca(2+)) are elevated. Previously, we showed that P. aeruginosa responds to externally added Ca(2+) through enhanced biofilm formation, increased production of several secreted virulence factors, and by developing a transient increase in the intracellular Ca(2+) level, followed by its removal to the basal submicromolar level. However, the molecular mechanisms responsible for regulating Ca(2+)-induced virulence factor production and Ca(2+) homeostasis are not known. Here, we characterized the genome-wide transcriptional response of P. aeruginosa to elevated [Ca(2+)] in both planktonic cultures and biofilms. Among the genes induced by CaCl2 in strain PAO1 was an operon containing the two-component regulator PA2656-PA2657 (here called carS and carR), while the closely related two-component regulators phoPQ and pmrAB were repressed by CaCl2 addition. To identify the regulatory targets of CarSR, we constructed a deletion mutant of carR and performed transcriptome analysis of the mutant strain at low and high [Ca(2+)]. Among the genes regulated by CarSR in response to CaCl2 are the predicted periplasmic OB-fold protein, PA0320 (here called carO), and the inner membrane-anchored five-bladed β-propeller protein, PA0327 (here called carP). Mutations in both carO and carP affected Ca(2+) homeostasis, reducing the ability of P. aeruginosa to export excess Ca(2+). In addition, a mutation in carP had a pleotropic effect in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner, altering swarming motility, pyocyanin production, and tobramycin sensitivity. Overall, the results indicate that the two-component system CarSR is responsible for sensing high levels of external Ca(2+) and responding through its regulatory targets that modulate Ca(2+) homeostasis, surface-associated motility, and the production of the virulence factor pyocyanin. During infectious disease, Pseudomonas aeruginosa encounters environments with high calcium (Ca(2+)) concentrations, yet the cells maintain intracellular Ca(2+) at levels that are orders of magnitude less than that of the external environment. In addition, Ca(2+) signals P. aeruginosa to induce the production of several virulence factors. Compared to eukaryotes, little is known about how bacteria maintain Ca(2+) homeostasis or how Ca(2+) acts as a signal. In this study, we identified a two-component regulatory system in P. aeruginosa PAO1, termed CarRS, that is induced at elevated Ca(2+) levels. CarRS modulates Ca(2+) signaling and Ca(2+) homeostasis through its regulatory targets, CarO and CarP. The results demonstrate that P. aeruginosa uses a two-component regulatory system to sense external Ca(2+) and relays that information for Ca(2+)-dependent cellular processes."	
33785623	microbial genomics	mBio	"{'i': ['In Vivo', 'MRR1'], '#text': 'Balancing Positive and Negative Selection:  Evolution of Candida lusitaniae .'}"	"The evolution of pathogens in response to selective pressures present during chronic infections can influence their persistence and virulence and the outcomes of antimicrobial therapy. Because subpopulations within an infection can be spatially separated and the host environment can fluctuate, an appreciation of the pathways under selection may be most easily revealed through the analysis of numerous isolates from single infections. Here, we continued our analysis of a set of clonally derived  ()  isolates from a single chronic lung infection with a striking enrichment in the number of alleles of  Genetic and genomic analyses found evidence for repeated acquisition of gain-of-function mutations that conferred constitutive Mrr1 activity. In the same population, there were multiple alleles with both gain-of-function mutations and secondary suppressor mutations that either attenuated or abolished the constitutive activity, suggesting the presence of counteracting selective pressures. Our studies demonstrated trade-offs between high Mrr1 activity, which confers resistance to the antifungal fluconazole, host factors, and bacterial products through its regulation of , and resistance to hydrogen peroxide, a reactive oxygen species produced in the neutrophilic environment associated with this infection. This inverse correlation between high Mrr1 activity and hydrogen peroxide resistance was observed in multiple  species and in serially collected populations from this individual over 3 years. These data lead us to propose that dynamic or variable selective pressures can be reflected in population genomics and that these dynamics can complicate the drug resistance profile of the population. Understanding microbial evolution within patients is critical for managing chronic infections and understanding host-pathogen interactions. Here, our analysis of multiple  alleles in isolates from a single  ()  infection revealed the selection for both high and low Mrr1 activity. Our studies reveal trade-offs between high Mrr1 activity, which confers resistance to the commonly used antifungal fluconazole, host antimicrobial peptides, and bacterial products, and resistance to hydrogen peroxide. This work suggests that spatial or temporal differences within chronic infections can support a large amount of dynamic and parallel evolution and that Mrr1 activity is under both positive and negative selective pressure to balance different traits that are important for microbial survival."	
24039595	microbial genomics	PLoS genetics	Genome analysis of a transmissible lineage of pseudomonas aeruginosa reveals pathoadaptive mutations and distinct evolutionary paths of hypermutators.	"Genome sequencing of bacterial pathogens has advanced our understanding of their evolution, epidemiology, and response to antibiotic therapy. However, we still have only a limited knowledge of the molecular changes in in vivo evolving bacterial populations in relation to long-term, chronic infections. For example, it remains unclear what genes are mutated to facilitate the establishment of long-term existence in the human host environment, and in which way acquisition of a hypermutator phenotype with enhanced rates of spontaneous mutations influences the evolutionary trajectory of the pathogen. Here we perform a retrospective study of the DK2 clone type of P. aeruginosa isolated from Danish patients suffering from cystic fibrosis (CF), and analyze the genomes of 55 bacterial isolates collected from 21 infected individuals over 38 years. Our phylogenetic analysis of 8,530 mutations in the DK2 genomes shows that the ancestral DK2 clone type spread among CF patients through several independent transmission events. Subsequent to transmission, sub-lineages evolved independently for years in separate hosts, creating a unique possibility to study parallel evolution and identification of genes targeted by mutations to optimize pathogen fitness (pathoadaptive mutations). These genes were related to antibiotic resistance, the cell envelope, or regulatory functions, and we find that the prevalence of pathoadaptive mutations correlates with evolutionary success of co-evolving sub-lineages. The long-term co-existence of both normal and hypermutator populations enabled comparative investigations of the mutation dynamics in homopolymeric sequences in which hypermutators are particularly prone to mutations. We find a positive exponential correlation between the length of the homopolymer and its likelihood to acquire mutations and identify two homopolymer-containing genes preferentially mutated in hypermutators. This homopolymer facilitated differential mutagenesis provides a novel genome-wide perspective on the different evolutionary trajectories of hypermutators, which may help explain their emergence in CF infections."	
23533140	microbial genomics	MicrobiologyOpen	Truncation of type IV pilin induces mucoidy in Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain PAO579.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a Gram negative, opportunistic pathogen that uses the overproduction of alginate, a surface polysaccharide, to form biofilms in vivo. Overproduction of alginate, also known as mucoidy, affords the bacterium protection from the host's defenses and facilitates the establishment of chronic lung infections in individuals with cystic fibrosis. Expression of the alginate biosynthetic operon is primarily controlled by the alternative sigma factor AlgU (AlgT/σ(22) ). In a nonmucoid strain, AlgU is sequestered by the transmembrane antisigma factor MucA to the cytoplasmic membrane. AlgU can be released from MucA via regulated intramembrane proteolysis by proteases AlgW and MucP causing the conversion to mucoidy. Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain PAO579, a derivative of the nonmucoid strain PAO1, is mucoid due to an unidentified mutation (muc-23). Using whole genome sequencing, we identified 16 nonsynonymous and 15 synonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP). We then identified three tandem single point mutations in the pilA gene (PA4525), as the cause of mucoidy in PAO579. These tandem mutations generate a premature stop codon resulting in a truncated version of PilA (PilA(108) ), with a C-terminal motif of phenylalanine-threonine-phenylalanine (FTF). Inactivation of pilA(108) confirmed it was required for mucoidy. Additionally, algW and algU were also required for mucoidy of PAO579. Western blot analysis indicated that MucA was less stable in PAO579 than nonmucoid PAO1 or PAO381. The mucoid phenotype and high PalgU and PalgD promoter activities of PAO579 require pilA(108) , algW, algU, and rpoN encoding the alternative sigma factor σ(54) . We also observed that RpoN regulates expression of algW and pilA in PAO579. Together, these results suggest that truncation in type IV pilin in P. aeruginosa strain PAO579 can induce mucoidy through an AlgW/AlgU-dependent pathway."	
31964733	human genomics	mBio	RNA G-Quadruplex Structures Mediate Gene Regulation in Bacteria.	"Guanine (G)-rich sequences in RNA can fold into diverse RNA G-quadruplex (rG4) structures to mediate various biological functions and cellular processes in eukaryotic organisms. However, the presence, locations, and functions of rG4s in prokaryotes are still elusive. We used QUMA-1, an rG4-specific fluorescent probe, to detect rG4 structures in a wide range of bacterial species both  and in live cells and found rG4 to be an abundant RNA secondary structure across those species. Subsequently, to identify bacterial rG4 sites in the transcriptome, the model  strain and a major human pathogen, , were subjected to recently developed high-throughput rG4 structure sequencing (rG4-seq). In total, 168 and 161  rG4 sites were found in  and , respectively. Genes carrying these rG4 sites were found to be involved in virulence, gene regulation, cell envelope synthesis, and metabolism. More importantly, biophysical assays revealed the formation of a group of rG4 sites in mRNAs (such as  and ), and they were functionally validated in cells by genetic (point mutation and  reporter assays) and phenotypic experiments, providing substantial evidence for the formation and function of rG4s in bacteria. Overall, our study uncovers important regulatory functions of rG4s in bacterial pathogenicity and metabolic pathways and strongly suggests that rG4s exist and can be detected in a wide range of bacterial species. G-quadruplex in RNA (rG4) mediates various biological functions and cellular processes in eukaryotic organisms. However, the presence, locations, and functions of rG4 are still elusive in prokaryotes. Here, we found that rG4 is an abundant RNA secondary structure across a wide range of bacterial species. Subsequently, the transcriptome-wide rG4 structure sequencing (rG4-seq) revealed that the model  strain and a major human pathogen, , have 168 and 161  rG4 sites, respectively, involved in virulence, gene regulation, cell envelope, and metabolism. We further verified the regulatory functions of two rG4 sites in bacteria ( and ). Overall, this finding strongly suggests that rG4s play key regulatory roles in a wide range of bacterial species."	
32692488	human genomics	Journal of cellular and molecular medicine	A functional genomics approach to investigate the differentiation of iPSCs into lung epithelium at air-liquid interface.	"The availability of robust protocols to differentiate induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) into many human cell lineages has transformed research into the origins of human disease. The efficacy of differentiating iPSCs into specific cellular models is influenced by many factors including both intrinsic and extrinsic features. Among the most challenging models is the generation of human bronchial epithelium at air-liquid interface (HBE-ALI), which is the gold standard for many studies of respiratory diseases including cystic fibrosis. Here, we perform open chromatin mapping by ATAC-seq and transcriptomics by RNA-seq in parallel, to define the functional genomics of key stages of the iPSC to HBE-ALI differentiation. Within open chromatin peaks, the overrepresented motifs include the architectural protein CTCF at all stages, while motifs for the FOXA pioneer and GATA factor families are seen more often at early stages, and those regulating key airway epithelial functions, such as EHF, are limited to later stages. The RNA-seq data illustrate dynamic pathways during the iPSC to HBE-ALI differentiation, and also the marked functional divergence of different iPSC lines at the ALI stages of differentiation. Moreover, a comparison of iPSC-derived and lung donor-derived HBE-ALI cultures reveals substantial differences between these models."	
21930755	microbial genomics	Infection and immunity	Genotypic and phenotypic variation in Pseudomonas aeruginosa reveals signatures of secondary infection and mutator activity in certain cystic fibrosis patients with chronic lung infections.	"Evolutionary adaptation of Pseudomonas aeruginosa to the cystic fibrosis lung is limited by genetic variation, which depends on rates of horizontal gene transfer and mutation supply. Because each may increase following secondary infection or mutator emergence, we sought to ascertain the incidence of secondary infection and genetic variability in populations containing or lacking mutators. Forty-nine strains collected over 3 years from 16 patients were phenotyped for antibiotic resistance and mutator status and were genotyped by repetitive-sequence PCR (rep-PCR), pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE), and multilocus sequence typing (MLST). Though phenotypic and genetic polymorphisms were widespread and clustered more strongly within than between longitudinal series, their distribution revealed instances of secondary infection. Sequence data, however, indicated that interlineage recombination predated initial strain isolation. Mutator series were more likely to be multiply antibiotic resistant, but not necessarily more variable in their nucleotide sequences, than nonmutators. One mutator and one nonmutator series were sequenced at mismatch repair loci and analyzed for gene content using DNA microarrays. Both were wild type with respect to mutL, but mutators carried an 8-bp mutS deletion causing a frameshift mutation. Both series lacked 126 genes encoding pilins, siderophores, and virulence factors whose inactivation has been linked to adaptation during chronic infection. Mutators exhibited loss of severalfold more genes having functions related to mobile elements, motility, and attachment. A 105-kb, 86-gene deletion was observed in one nonmutator that resulted in loss of virulence factors related to pyoverdine synthesis and elements of the multidrug efflux regulon. Diminished DNA repair activity may facilitate but not be absolutely required for rapid evolutionary change."	
33239626	human genomics	Scientific reports	Integrative genomic meta-analysis reveals novel molecular insights into cystic fibrosis and ΔF508-CFTR rescue.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF), caused by mutations to CFTR, leads to severe and progressive lung disease. The most common mutant, ΔF508-CFTR, undergoes proteasomal degradation, extinguishing its anion channel function. Numerous in vitro interventions have been identified to partially rescue ΔF508-CFTR function yet remain poorly understood. Improved understanding of both the altered state of CF cells and the mechanisms of existing rescue strategies could reveal novel therapeutic strategies. Toward this aim, we measured transcriptional profiles of established temperature, genetic, and chemical interventions that rescue ΔF508-CFTR and also re-analyzed public datasets characterizing transcription in human CF vs. non-CF samples from airway and whole blood. Meta-analysis yielded a core disease signature and two core rescue signatures. To interpret these through the lens of prior knowledge, we compiled a ""CFTR Gene Set Library"" from literature. The core disease signature revealed remarkably strong connections to genes with established effects on CFTR trafficking and function and suggested novel roles of EGR1 and SGK1 in the disease state. Our data also revealed an unexpected mechanistic link between several genetic rescue interventions and the unfolded protein response. Finally, we found that C18, an analog of the CFTR corrector compound Lumacaftor, induces almost no transcriptional perturbation despite its rescue activity."	
22210761	microbial genomics	Journal of bacteriology	Analysis of the Pseudomonas aeruginosa regulon controlled by the sensor kinase KinB and sigma factor RpoN.	"Alginate overproduction by Pseudomonas aeruginosa, also known as mucoidy, is associated with chronic endobronchial infections in cystic fibrosis. Alginate biosynthesis is initiated by the extracytoplasmic function sigma factor (σ(22); AlgU/AlgT). In the wild-type (wt) nonmucoid strains, such as PAO1, AlgU is sequestered to the cytoplasmic membrane by the anti-sigma factor MucA that inhibits alginate production. One mechanism underlying the conversion to mucoidy is mutation of mucA. However, the mucoid conversion can occur in wt mucA strains via the degradation of MucA by activated intramembrane proteases AlgW and/or MucP. Previously, we reported that the deletion of the sensor kinase KinB in PAO1 induces an AlgW-dependent proteolysis of MucA, resulting in alginate overproduction. This type of mucoid induction requires the alternate sigma factor RpoN (σ(54)). To determine the RpoN-dependent KinB regulon, microarray and proteomic analyses were performed on a mucoid kinB mutant and an isogenic nonmucoid kinB rpoN double mutant. In the kinB mutant of PAO1, RpoN controlled the expression of approximately 20% of the genome. In addition to alginate biosynthetic and regulatory genes, KinB and RpoN also control a large number of genes including those involved in carbohydrate metabolism, quorum sensing, iron regulation, rhamnolipid production, and motility. In an acute pneumonia murine infection model, BALB/c mice exhibited increased survival when challenged with the kinB mutant relative to survival with PAO1 challenge. Together, these data strongly suggest that KinB regulates virulence factors important for the development of acute pneumonia and conversion to mucoidy."	
31973169	microbial genomics	"Pathogens (Basel, Switzerland)"	"{'i': 'Achromobacter xylosoxidans', '#text': 'Hypermutation as an Evolutionary Mechanism for  in Cystic Fibrosis Lung Infection.'}"	"can cause chronic infections in the lungs of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) by adapting to the specific environment. The study of longitudinal isolates allows to investigate its within-host evolution to unravel the adaptive mechanisms contributing to successful colonization. In this study, four clinical isolates longitudinally collected from two chronically infected patients underwent whole genome sequencing, de novo assembly and sequence analysis. Phenotypic assays were also performed. The isolates coming from one of the patients (patient A) presented a greater number of genetic variants, diverse integrative and conjugative elements, and different protease secretion. In the first of these isolates (strain A1), we also found a large deletion in the  gene, involved in DNA mismatch repair (MMR). In contrast, isolates from patient B showed a lower number of variants, only one integrative and mobilizable element, no phenotypic changes, and no mutations in the MMR system. These results suggest that in the two patients the establishment of a chronic infection was mediated by different adaptive mechanisms. While the strains isolated from patient B showed a longitudinal microevolution, strain A1 can be clearly classified as a hypermutator, confirming the occurrence and importance of this adaptive mechanism in  infection."	
33375403	human genomics	"Life (Basel, Switzerland)"	The Effect of Synonymous Single-Nucleotide Polymorphisms on an Atypical Cystic Fibrosis Clinical Presentation.	"Synonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (sSNPs), which change a nucleotide, but not the encoded amino acid, are perceived as neutral to protein function and thus, classified as benign. We report a patient who was diagnosed with cystic fibrosis (CF) at an advanced age and presented very mild CF symptoms. The sequencing of the whole cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator () gene locus revealed that the patient lacks known CF-causing mutations. We found a homozygous sSNP (c.1584G>A) at the end of exon 11 in the  gene. Using sensitive molecular methods, we report that the c.1584G>A sSNP causes cognate exon skipping and retention of a sequence from the downstream intron, both of which, however, occur at a relatively low frequency. In addition, we found two other sSNPs (c.2562T>G (p.Thr854=) and c.4389G>A (p.Gln1463=)), for which the patient is also homozygous. These two sSNPs stabilize the CFTR protein expression, compensating, at least in part, for the c.1584G>A-triggered inefficient splicing. Our data highlight the importance of considering sSNPs when assessing the effect(s) of complex CFTR alleles. sSNPs may epistatically modulate mRNA and protein expression levels and consequently influence disease phenotype and progression."	
27881736	human genomics	Open biology	Reactive oxygen species drive evolution of pro-biofilm variants in pathogens by modulating cyclic-di-GMP levels.	"The host immune system offers a hostile environment with antimicrobials and reactive oxygen species (ROS) that are detrimental to bacterial pathogens, forcing them to adapt and evolve for survival. However, the contribution of oxidative stress to pathogen evolution remains elusive. Using an experimental evolution strategy, we show that exposure of the opportunistic pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa to sub-lethal hydrogen peroxide (HO) levels over 120 generations led to the emergence of pro-biofilm rough small colony variants (RSCVs), which could be abrogated by l-glutathione antioxidants. Comparative genomic analysis of the RSCVs revealed that mutations in the wspF gene, which encodes for a repressor of WspR diguanylate cyclase (DGC), were responsible for increased intracellular cyclic-di-GMP content and production of Psl exopolysaccharide. Psl provides the first line of defence against ROS and macrophages, ensuring the survival fitness of RSCVs over wild-type P. aeruginosa Our study demonstrated that ROS is an essential driving force for the selection of pro-biofilm forming pathogenic variants. Understanding the fundamental mechanism of these genotypic and phenotypic adaptations will improve treatment strategies for combating chronic infections."	
32492951	human genomics	Cells	Intrinsic Abnormalities of Cystic Fibrosis Airway Connective Tissue Revealed by an In Vitro 3D Stromal Model.	"Cystic fibrosis is characterized by lung dysfunction involving mucus hypersecretion, bacterial infections, and inflammatory response. Inflammation triggers pro-fibrotic signals that compromise lung structure and function. At present, several in vitro cystic fibrosis models have been developed to study epithelial dysfunction but none of these focuses on stromal alterations. Here we show a new cystic fibrosis 3D stromal lung model made up of primary fibroblasts embedded in their own extracellular matrix and investigate its morphological and transcriptomic features. Cystic fibrosis fibroblasts showed a high proliferation rate and produced an abundant and chaotic matrix with increased protein content and elastic modulus. More interesting, they had enhanced pro-fibrotic markers and genes involved in epithelial function and inflammatory response. In conclusion, our study reveals that cystic fibrosis fibroblasts maintain in vitro an activated pro-fibrotic state. This abnormality may play in vivo a role in the modulation of epithelial and inflammatory cell behavior and lung remodeling. We argue that the proposed bioengineered model may provide new insights on epithelial/stromal/inflammatory cells crosstalk in cystic fibrosis, paving the way for novel therapeutic strategies."	
19477905	microbial genomics	"Microbiology (Reading, England)"	Subinhibitory concentrations of the cationic antimicrobial peptide colistin induce the pseudomonas quinolone signal in Pseudomonas aeruginosa.	"Colistin is an important cationic antimicrobial peptide (CAMP) in the fight against Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection in cystic fibrosis (CF) lungs. The effects of subinhibitory concentrations of colistin on gene expression in P. aeruginosa were investigated by transcriptome and functional genomic approaches. Analysis revealed altered expression of 30 genes representing a variety of pathways associated with virulence and bacterial colonization in chronic infection. These included response to osmotic stress, motility, and biofilm formation, as well as genes associated with LPS modification and quorum sensing (QS). Most striking was the upregulation of Pseudomonas quinolone signal (PQS) biosynthesis genes, including pqsH, pqsB and pqsE, and the phenazine biosynthesis operon. Induction of this central component of the QS network following exposure to subinhibitory concentrations of colistin may represent a switch to a more robust population, with increased fitness in the competitive environment of the CF lung."	
22821996	microbial genomics	American journal of physiology. Lung cellular and molecular physiology	Does the F508-CFTR mutation induce a proinflammatory response in human airway epithelial cells?	"In the clinical setting, mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene enhance the inflammatory response in the lung to Pseudomonas aeruginosa (P. aeruginosa) infection. However, studies on human airway epithelial cells in vitro have produced conflicting results regarding the effect of mutations in CFTR on the inflammatory response to P. aeruginosa, and there are no comprehensive studies evaluating the effect of P. aeruginosa on the inflammatory response in airway epithelial cells with the ΔF508/ΔF508 genotype and their matched CF cell line rescued with wild-type (wt)-CFTR. CFBE41o- cells (ΔF508/ΔF508) and CFBE41o- cells complemented with wt-CFTR (CFBE-wt-CFTR) have been used extensively as an experimental model to study CF. Thus the goal of this study was to examine the effect of P. aeruginosa on gene expression and cytokine/chemokine production in this pair of cells. P. aeruginosa elicited a more robust increase in cytokine and chemokine expression (e.g., IL-8, CXCL1, CXCL2 and TNF-α) in CFBE-wt-CFTR cells compared with CFBE-ΔF508-CFTR cells. These results demonstrate that CFBE41o- cells complemented with wt-CFTR mount a more robust inflammatory response to P. aeruginosa than CFBE41o-ΔF508/ΔF508-CFTR cells. Taken together with other published studies, our data demonstrate that there is no compelling evidence to support the view that mutations in CFTR induce a hyperinflammatory response in human airway epithelial cells in vivo. Although the lungs of patients with CF have abundant levels of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines, because the lung is populated by immune cells and epithelial cells there is no way to know, a priori, whether airway epithelial cells in the CF lung in vivo are hyperinflammatory in response to P. aeruginosa compared with non-CF lung epithelial cells. Thus studies on human airway epithelial cell lines and primary cells in vitro that propose to examine the effect of mutations in CFTR on the inflammatory response to P. aeruginosa have uncertain clinical significance with regard to CF."	
25908149	microbial genomics	Genome announcements	Genome Sequence of Mucoid Pseudomonas aeruginosa Strain FRD1.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an important opportunistic pathogen. Strain FRD1 is a mucoid isolate from the sputum of a cystic fibrosis patient. It has been widely studied and has many different phenotypes compared to nonmucoid strains. Here, we present the draft genome sequence of P. aeruginosa strain FRD1 to gain insight into mucoid isolates."	
32873524	human genomics	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Immune response of polarized cystic fibrosis airway epithelial cells infected with Influenza A virus.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF), a genetic disease caused by mutations of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene, is characterized by dysfunction of the immune response in the airway epithelium that leads to prolonged infection, colonization and exacerbated inflammation. In this study, we determined the gene expression profile of airway epithelial cells knockdown for CFTR (CFTR KD) in response to bacterial and viral challenges. In a first approach, polarized CFTR KD and their control counterpart (CFTR CTL) cells were stimulated with P. aeruginosa-derived virulence factor flagellin. Next, we developed a model of Influenza A virus (IAV) infection in CTL and CFTR KD polarized cells. mRNA was collected for transcriptome analysis. Beside the expected pro-inflammatory response, Gene Set Enrichment Analysis highlighted key molecular pathways and players involved in IAV and anti-viral interferon signaling. Although IAV replication was similar in both cell types, multiplex gene expression analysis revealed changes of key immune genes dependent on time of infection that were found to be CFTR-dependent and/or IAV-dependent. Interferons are key signaling proteins/cytokines in the antibacterial and antiviral response. To evaluate their impact on the altered gene expression profile in CFTR responses to pathogens, we measured transcriptome changes after exposure to Type I-, Type II- and Type III-interferons. Our findings reveal target genes in understanding the defective immune response in the CF airway epithelium in the context of viral infection. Information provided in this study would be useful to understand the dysfunctional immune response of the CF airway epithelium during infection."	
19459782	microbial genomics	The Journal of infectious diseases	Dynamics of adaptive microevolution of hypermutable Pseudomonas aeruginosa during chronic pulmonary infection in patients with cystic fibrosis.	"In patients with cystic fibrosis (CF), the emergence of hypermutable Pseudomonas aeruginosa drives the selection of P. aeruginosa variants that are efficiently adapted to the inflamed lungs of these patients. To provide a detailed survey of adaptive changes in the physiology of P. aeruginosa during chronic lung infection in patients with CF. We performed a comparative proteome and transcriptome analysis of sequential, isogenic isolates recovered over a period of 3-5 years from 3 selected patients with CF. The isolates analyzed included both those with high mutation rates and defects in their methyl-directed mismatch repair system (hereafter, ""mutators"") and those without such changes (hereafter, ""nonmutators""). In addition to attenuation of virulence, the P. aeruginosa adaptation process predominantly affects metabolic pathways. In mutator isolates recovered from patients with end-stage CF lung disease, we observed increases in the transcripts of genes or proteins involved in the metabolism of fatty acids and amino acids and the generation of energy. Of particular interest is the increased expression of genes involved in the following pathways and processes: (1) the anaerobic arginine-deiminase pathway, (2) anaerobic respiration (e.g., nitrate-uptake protein OprF, azurin, and cytochrome c551 peroxidase), (3) microaerobic respiration (e.g., cytochrome oxidase cbb3), and (4) the tricarboxylic acid cycle and glyoxylate shunt. Strikingly, increased transcription of the anaerobic regulator gene anr correlates with the up-regulation of ANR-dependent genes. These changes indicate an adaptive shift toward constitutive expression of genes required for growth under the nutritional and microaerobic conditions created by suppurative secretions in the lungs of patients with CF. In addition, these results provide important clues about the persistence strategies used by P. aeruginosa during progressive CF lung disease."	
16041053	microbial genomics	Infection and immunity	Similarity of gene expression patterns in human alveolar macrophages in response to Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Burkholderia cepacia.	"To determine if differences in the severity of pulmonary infection in cystic fibrosis seen with late isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Burkholderia cepacia are associated with differences in the initial response of alveolar macrophages (AM) to these pathogens, we assessed gene expression changes in human AM in response to infection with a laboratory strain, early and late clinical isolates of P. aeruginosa, and B. cepacia. Analysis of gene expression changes at the RNA level using oligonucleotide microarrays, following exposure to laboratory P. aeruginosa strain PAK, showed significant (P < 0.01) >2.5-fold upregulation of 42 genes and >2.5-fold downregulation of 45 genes. The majority of the changes in gene expression involved genes as part of inflammatory pathways and signaling systems. Interestingly, similar responses were observed following exposure of AM to early and late clinical isolates of P. aeruginosa, as well as with B. cepacia, suggesting that the more severe clinical outcome of infections with late clinical isolates of P. aeruginosa or with B. cepacia cannot be explained by differences in the early interactions of these organisms with the human AM, as reflected by the similarity of gene expression changes in response to exposure of AM to these pathogens."	
34605540	human genomics	The Biochemical journal	"BACH1, the master regulator of oxidative stress, has a dual effect on CFTR expression."	"The cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene lies within a topologically associated domain (TAD) in which multiple cis-regulatory elements (CREs) and transcription factors (TFs) regulate its cell-specific expression. The CREs are recruited to the gene promoter by a looping mechanism that depends upon both architectural proteins and specific TFs. An siRNA screen to identify TFs coordinating CFTR expression in airway epithelial cells suggested an activating role for BTB domain and CNC homolog 1 (BACH1). BACH1 is a ubiquitous master regulator of the cellular response to oxidative stress. Here, we show that BACH1 may have a dual effect on CFTR expression by direct occupancy of CREs at physiological oxygen (∼8%), while indirectly modulating expression under conditions of oxidative stress. Hence BACH1, can activate or repress the same gene, to fine tune expression in response to environmental cues such as cell stress. Furthermore, our 4C-seq data suggest that BACH1 can also directly regulate CFTR gene expression by modulating locus architecture through occupancy at known enhancers and structural elements, and depletion of BACH1 alters the higher order chromatin structure."	
23264659	human genomics	"Journal of immunology (Baltimore, Md. : 1950)"	Rescue of dysfunctional autophagy attenuates hyperinflammatory responses from cystic fibrosis cells.	"A hallmark feature of cystic fibrosis (CF) is progressive pulmonary obstruction arising from exaggerated host proinflammatory responses to chronic bacterial airway colonization. The mechanisms for these heightened inflammatory responses have been only partially characterized, hampering development of effective anti-inflammatory therapies. The aim of this study was to identify and validate novel dysfunctional processes or pathways driving the hyperinflammatory phenotype of CF cells using systems biology and network analysis to examine transcriptional changes induced by innate defense regulator (IDR)-1018, an anti-inflammatory peptide. IDR-1018 selectively attenuated hyperinflammatory cytokine production from CF airway cells and PBMCs stimulated with multiple bacterial ligands, including flagellin (FliC). Network analysis of CF cell transcriptional responses to FliC and IDR-1018 identified dysfunctional autophagy as the target of the peptide via modulation of upstream adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK)-Akt signaling. After treatment with FliC, CF cells were found to have elevated levels of the autophagosome marker LC3-II, and GFP-LC3-transfected CF airway cells showed abnormal perinuclear accumulation of GFP(+) structures. In both instances, treatment of CF cells with IDR-1018 abolished the accumulation of LC3 induced by FliC. Furthermore, inhibition of autophagosome-lysosome fusion with bafilomycinA1 attenuated the anti-inflammatory and autophagosome-clearing effects of IDR-1018, as did a chemical inhibitor of Akt and an activator of AMPK. These findings were consistent with hypotheses generated in silico, demonstrating the utility of systems biology and network analysis approaches for providing pathway-level insights into CF-associated inflammation. Collectively, these data suggest that dysfunctional autophagosome clearance contributes to heightened inflammatory responses from CF transmembrane receptor mutant cells and highlight autophagy and AMPK-Akt signaling as novel anti-inflammatory targets in CF."	
33815402	human genomics	Frontiers in immunology	The Protective Effects of IL-31RA Deficiency During Bleomycin-Induced Pulmonary Fibrosis.	"Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF) is a severe fibrotic lung disease characterized by excessive collagen deposition and progressive decline in lung function. Th2 T cell-derived cytokines including IL-4 and IL-13 have been shown to contribute to inflammation and fibrotic remodeling in multiple tissues. Interleukin-31 (IL-31) is a newly identified cytokine that is predominantly produced by CD4 Th2 T cells, but its signaling receptor IL-31RA is primarily expressed by non-hematopoietic cells. However, the potential role of the IL-31-IL31RA axis in pulmonary inflammation and fibrosis has remained largely unknown. To determine the role of IL-31RA deficiency in pulmonary fibrosis, wildtype, and IL-31RA knockout mice were treated with bleomycin and measured changes in collagen deposition and lung function. Notably, the loss of IL-31 signaling attenuated collagen deposition and lung function decline during bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis. The total lung transcriptome analysis showed a significant reduction in fibrosis-associated gene transcripts including extracellular matrix and epithelial cell-associated gene networks. Furthermore, the lungs of human IPF showed an elevated expression of IL-31 when compared to healthy subjects. In support, the percentage of IL-31 producing CD4 T cells was greater in the lungs and PBMCs from IPF patients compared to healthy controls. Our findings suggest a pathogenic role for IL-31/IL-31RA signaling during bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis. Thus, therapeutic targeting the IL-31-IL-31RA axis may prevent collagen deposition, improve lung function, and have therapeutic potential in pulmonary fibrosis."	
26294635	microbial genomics	Genome announcements	"Complete Genome Sequence of Achromobacter xylosoxidans MN001, a Cystic Fibrosis Airway Isolate."	"The genome of Achromobacter xylosoxidans MN001, a strain isolated from sputum derived from an adult cystic fibrosis patient, was sequenced using combined single-molecule real-time and Illumina sequencing. Assembly of the complete genome resulted in a 5,876,039-bp chromosome, representing the smallest A. xylosoxidans genome sequenced to date."	
24699529	microbial genomics	PloS one	"A novel Pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteriophage, Ab31, a chimera formed from temperate phage PAJU2 and P. putida lytic phage AF: characteristics and mechanism of bacterial resistance."	"A novel temperate bacteriophage of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, phage vB_PaeP_Tr60_Ab31 (alias Ab31) is described. Its genome is composed of structural genes related to those of lytic P. putida phage AF, and regulatory genes similar to those of temperate phage PAJU2. The virion structure resembles that of phage AF and other lytic Podoviridae (S. enterica Epsilon 15 and E. coli phiv10) with similar tail spikes. Ab31 was able to infect P. aeruginosa strain PA14 and two genetically related strains called Tr60 and Tr162, out of 35 diverse strains from cystic fibrosis patients. Analysis of resistant host variants revealed different phenotypes, including induction of pigment and alginate overproduction. Whole genome sequencing of resistant variants highlighted the existence of a large deletion of 234 kbp in two strains, encompassing a cluster of genes required for the production of CupA fimbriae. Stable lysogens formed by Ab31 in strain Tr60, permitted the identification of the insertion site. During colonization of the lung in cystic fibrosis patients, P. aeruginosa adapts by modifying its genome. We suggest that bacteriophages such as Ab31 may play an important role in this adaptation by selecting for bacterial characteristics that favor persistence of bacteria in the lung."	
28006108	human genomics	Annals of the American Thoracic Society	"Digitoxin for Airway Inflammation in Cystic Fibrosis: Preliminary Assessment of Safety, Pharmacokinetics, and Dose Finding."	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) lung disease progresses by a combination of airway inflammation, bacterial colonization, and infection. Airway inflammation is predominantly neutrophilic and complicates airway clearance therapies through cellular debris; excessive DNA; excessive and viscous mucus; and high concentrations of neutrophils, IL-8, and related cytokines liberated along the nuclear factor-κB signaling pathway. We conducted a preliminary, single-site, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the effects over 28 days of two dose levels (0.05 mg and 0.1 mg daily) of an older cardiac glycoside, digitoxin, as compared with placebo, on safety, pharmacokinetics, and inflammatory markers in induced sputum obtained from 24 subjects with mild to moderate CF lung disease. Patients with CF 18-45 years old with any genotype combination were eligible. The primary objective was to measure the effects of digitoxin on IL-8 and neutrophil counts in induced sputum. Secondary objectives were to measure (1) the pharmacokinetics of digitoxin in sera of patients with stable CF; (2) safety indices, including ECG changes and sputum microbiology; (3) the effect of digitoxin on gene expression in nasal epithelial cells of patients with stable CF; and (4) quality-of-life scores using the Cystic Fibrosis Questionnaire-Revised. It took several weeks to achieve a therapeutic serum level of digitoxin in subjects with CF. No safety concerns emerged during the study. Digitoxin treatment showed a trend toward reduction in sputum free neutrophil elastase and neutrophil counts, but not a reduction in sputum IL-8. Digitoxin treatment did not reach statistical significance for the primary or secondary outcome measures over the 28-day study period. However, the nasal mRNA from the group receiving 0.1 mg of digitoxin daily had a distinct distribution of global gene expression levels as compared with either the 0.05-mg dose or placebo treatment. The mRNAs encoding chemokine/cytokine or cell surface receptors in immune cells were decreased in nasal epithelial cells at the higher dose, leading to pathway-mediated reductions in IL-8, IL-6, lung epithelial inflammation, neutrophil recruitment, and mucus hypersecretion. At a dose of 0.1 mg daily for 28 days, digitoxin was safe for adults with CF lung disease, but it did not achieve a significant decrease in sputum inflammatory markers. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT00782288)."	
18524913	microbial genomics	"Microbiology (Reading, England)"	The Pseudomonas aeruginosa PsrA responds to long-chain fatty acid signals to regulate the fadBA5 beta-oxidation operon.	"Beta-oxidative enzymes for fatty acid degradation (Fad) of long-chain fatty acids (LCFAs) are induced in vivo during lung infection in cystic fibrosis patients, and this may contribute to nutrient acquisition and pathogenesis of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The promoter region of one P. aeruginosa beta-oxidation operon, fadBA5 (PA3014 and PA3013), was mapped. Focusing on the transposon mutagenesis of strain PAO1 carrying the P(fadBA5)-lacZ fusion, a regulator for the fadBA5 operon was identified to be PsrA (PA3006). Transcriptome analysis of the DeltapsrA mutant indicated its importance in regulating beta-oxidative enzymes. These microarray data were confirmed by real-time RT-PCR analyses of the fadB5 and lipA (encoding a lipase) genes. Induction of the fadBA5 operon was demonstrated to respond to novel LCFA signals, and this induction required the presence of PsrA, suggesting that LCFAs bind to PsrA to derepress fadBA5. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays indicate specific binding of PsrA to the fadBA5 promoter region. This binding is disrupted by specific LCFAs (C(18:1)(Delta9), C(16:0), C(14:0) and, to a lesser extent, C(12:0)), but not by other medium- or short-chain fatty acids or the first intermediate of beta-oxidation, acyl-CoA. It is shown here that PsrA is a fadBA5 regulator that binds and responds to LCFA signals in P. aeruginosa."	
25059868	microbial genomics	Genome announcements	"Genome Sequences of Cupriavidus metallidurans Strains NA1, NA4, and NE12, Isolated from Space Equipment."	"Cupriavidus metallidurans NA1, NA4, and NE12 were isolated from space and spacecraft-associated environments. Here, we report their draft genome sequences with the aim of gaining insight into their potential to adapt to these environments."	
24723723	microbial genomics	Genome announcements	"Genome Sequence of Burkholderia cenocepacia H111, a Cystic Fibrosis Airway Isolate."	"The Burkholderia cepacia complex (BCC) is a group of related bacterial species that are commonly isolated from environmental samples. Members of the BCC can cause respiratory infections in cystic fibrosis patients and immunocompromised individuals. We report here the genome sequence of Burkholderia cenocepacia H111, a well-studied model strain of the BCC."	
29669939	human genomics	JCI insight	Cystic fibrosis-related diabetes is caused by islet loss and inflammation.	"Cystic fibrosis-related (CF-related) diabetes (CFRD) is an increasingly common and devastating comorbidity of CF, affecting approximately 35% of adults with CF. However, the underlying causes of CFRD are unclear. Here, we examined cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) islet expression and whether the CFTR participates in islet endocrine cell function using murine models of β cell CFTR deletion and normal and CF human pancreas and islets. Specific deletion of CFTR from murine β cells did not affect β cell function. In human islets, CFTR mRNA was minimally expressed, and CFTR protein and electrical activity were not detected. Isolated CF/CFRD islets demonstrated appropriate insulin and glucagon secretion, with few changes in key islet-regulatory transcripts. Furthermore, approximately 65% of β cell area was lost in CF donors, compounded by pancreatic remodeling and immune infiltration of the islet. These results indicate that CFRD is caused by β cell loss and intraislet inflammation in the setting of a complex pleiotropic disease and not by intrinsic islet dysfunction from CFTR mutation."	
31700158	human genomics	Scientific reports	MiR-146a is over-expressed and controls IL-6 production in cystic fibrosis macrophages.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an inherited disease that is characterised by susceptibility to bacterial infections and chronic lung inflammation. Recently, it was suggested that macrophages contribute to impaired host defence and excessive inflammatory responses in CF. Indeed, dysfunction attributed to CF macrophages includes decreased bacterial killing and exaggerated inflammatory responses. However, the mechanisms behind such defects have only been partially defined. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as key regulators of several macrophage functions, including their activation, differentiation and polarisation. The goal of this study was to investigate whether miRNA dysregulation underlies the functional abnormalities of CF macrophages. MiRNA profiling of macrophages was performed, with 22 miRNAs identified as differentially expressed between CF and non-CF individuals. Among these, miR-146a was associated with significant enrichment of validated target genes involved in responses to microorganisms and inflammation. As miR-146a dysregulation has been reported in several human inflammatory diseases, we analysed the impact of increased miR-146a expression on inflammatory responses of CF macrophages. These data show that inhibition of miR-146a in lipopolysaccharide-stimulated CF macrophages results in increased interleukin-6 production, which suggests that miR-146a overexpression in CF is functional, to restrict inflammatory responses."	
35820705	human genomics	Life science alliance	"{'i': ['IFI27', 'APOC2'], '#text': 'ScRNA-seq expression of  and  identifies four alveolar macrophage superclusters in healthy BALF.'}"	"Alveolar macrophages (AMs) reside on the luminal surface of the airways and alveoli, ensuring proper gas exchange by ingesting cellular debris and pathogens, and regulating inflammatory responses. Therefore, understanding the heterogeneity and diverse roles played by AMs, interstitial macrophages, and recruited monocytes is critical for treating airway diseases. We performed single-cell RNA sequencing on 113,213 bronchoalveolar lavage cells from four healthy and three uninflamed cystic fibrosis subjects and identified two MARCKSLGMNIMs, FOLR2SELENOP and SPP1PLA2G7 IMs, monocyte subtypes, DC1, DC2, migDCs, plasmacytoid DCs, lymphocytes, epithelial cells, and four AM superclusters (families) based on the gene expression of  and  These four AM families have at least eight distinct functional members (subclusters) named after their differentially expressed gene(s): IGF1, CCL18, CXCL5, cholesterol, chemokine, metallothionein, interferon, and small-cluster AMs. Interestingly, the chemokine cluster further divides with each subcluster selectively expressing a unique combination of chemokines. One of the most striking observations, besides the heterogeneity, is the conservation of AM family members in relatively equal ratio across all AM superclusters and individuals. Transcriptional data and TotalSeq technology were used to investigate cell surface markers that distinguish resident AMs from recruited monocytes. Last, other AM datasets were projected onto our dataset. Similar AM superclusters and functional subclusters were observed, along with a significant increase in chemokine and IFN AM subclusters in individuals infected with COVID-19. Overall, functional specializations of the AM subclusters suggest that there are highly regulated AM niches with defined programming states, highlighting a clear division of labor."	
34922851	human genomics	Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Rescue of chloride and bicarbonate transport by elexacaftor-ivacaftor-tezacaftor in organoid-derived CF intestinal and cholangiocyte monolayers.	"In cystic fibrosis (CF), loss of CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR)-dependent bicarbonate secretion precipitates the accumulation of viscous mucus in the lumen of respiratory and gastrointestinal epithelial tissues. We investigated whether the combination of elexacaftor (ELX), ivacaftor (IVA) and tezacaftor (TEZ), apart from its well-documented effect on chloride transport, also restores Phe508del-CFTR-mediated bicarbonate transport. Epithelial monolayers were cultured from intestinal and biliary (cholangiocyte) organoids of homozygous Phe508del-CFTR patients and controls. Transcriptome sequencing was performed, and bicarbonate and chloride transport were assessed in the presence or absence of ELX/IVA/TEZ, using the intestinal current measurement technique. ELX/IVA/TEZ markedly enhanced bicarbonate and chloride transport across intestinal epithelium. In biliary epithelium, it failed to enhance CFTR-mediated bicarbonate transport but effectively rescued CFTR-mediated chloride transport, known to be requisite for bicarbonate secretion through the chloride-bicarbonate exchanger AE2 (SLC4A2), which was highly expressed by cholangiocytes. Biliary but not intestinal epithelial cells expressed an alternative anion channel, anoctamin-1/TMEM16A (ANO1), and secreted bicarbonate and chloride upon purinergic receptor stimulation. ELX/IVA/TEZ has the potential to restore both chloride and bicarbonate secretion across CF intestinal and biliary epithelia and may counter luminal hyper-acidification in these tissues."	
36395320	microbial genomics	PLoS biology	The pan-genome of Aspergillus fumigatus provides a high-resolution view of its population structure revealing high levels of lineage-specific diversity driven by recombination.	"Aspergillus fumigatus is a deadly agent of human fungal disease where virulence heterogeneity is thought to be at least partially structured by genetic variation between strains. While population genomic analyses based on reference genome alignments offer valuable insights into how gene variants are distributed across populations, these approaches fail to capture intraspecific variation in genes absent from the reference genome. Pan-genomic analyses based on de novo assemblies offer a promising alternative to reference-based genomics with the potential to address the full genetic repertoire of a species. Here, we evaluate 260 genome sequences of A. fumigatus including 62 newly sequenced strains, using a combination of population genomics, phylogenomics, and pan-genomics. Our results offer a high-resolution assessment of population structure and recombination frequency, phylogenetically structured gene presence-absence variation, evidence for metabolic specificity, and the distribution of putative antifungal resistance genes. Although A. fumigatus disperses primarily via asexual conidia, we identified extraordinarily high levels of recombination with the lowest linkage disequilibrium decay value reported for any fungal species to date. We provide evidence for 3 primary populations of A. fumigatus, with recombination occurring only rarely between populations and often within them. These 3 populations are structured by both gene variation and distinct patterns of gene presence-absence with unique suites of accessory genes present exclusively in each clade. Accessory genes displayed functional enrichment for nitrogen and carbohydrate metabolism suggesting that populations may be stratified by environmental niche specialization. Similarly, the distribution of antifungal resistance genes and resistance alleles were often structured by phylogeny. Altogether, the pan-genome of A. fumigatus represents one of the largest fungal pan-genomes reported to date including many genes unrepresented in the Af293 reference genome. These results highlight the inadequacy of relying on a single-reference genome-based approach for evaluating intraspecific variation and the power of combined genomic approaches to elucidate population structure, genetic diversity, and putative ecological drivers of clinically relevant fungi."	
25657265	microbial genomics	Genome announcements	Genome Sequences of Two Pandoraea pnomenusa Isolates Recovered 11 Months Apart from a Cystic Fibrosis Patient.	"Pandoraea is an emerging respiratory pathogen capable of causing chronic lung infections in people with cystic fibrosis (CF), but the clinical significance of this infection is ambiguous. We have sequenced and annotated the genomes of two multidrug-resistant Pandoraea pnomenusa isolates recovered 11 months apart from the same CF patient."	
31356157	human genomics	ImmunoHorizons	DNA Methylation Changes in Regional Lung Macrophages Are Associated with Metabolic Differences.	"A number of pulmonary diseases occur with upper lobe predominance, including cystic fibrosis and smoking-related chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. In the healthy lung, several physiologic and metabolic factors exhibit disparity when comparing the upper lobe of the lung to lower lobe, including differences in oxygenation, ventilation, lymphatic flow, pH, and blood flow. In this study, we asked whether these regional differences in the lung are associated with DNA methylation changes in lung macrophages that could potentially lead to altered cell responsiveness upon subsequent environmental challenge. All analyses were performed using primary lung macrophages collected via bronchoalveolar lavage from healthy human subjects with normal pulmonary function. Epigenome-wide DNA methylation was examined via Infinium MethylationEPIC (850K) array and validated by targeted next-generation bisulfite sequencing. We observed 95 CpG loci with significant differential methylation in lung macrophages, comparing upper lobe to lower lobe (all false discovery rate < 0.05). Several of these genes, including , , , , and , have been implicated as participants in inflammatory/immune-related biological processes. Functionally, we identified phenotypic differences in oxygen use, comparing upper versus lower lung macrophages. Our results support a hypothesis that epigenetic changes, specifically DNA methylation, at a multitude of gene loci in lung macrophages are associated with metabolic differences regionally in lung."	
34458011	human genomics	Molecular therapy. Nucleic acids	Lentiviral vectors transduce lung stem cells without disrupting plasticity.	"Life-long expression of a gene therapy agent likely requires targeting stem cells. Here we ask the question: does viral vector transduction or ectopic expression of a therapeutic transgene preclude airway stem cell function? We used a lentiviral vector containing a GFP or cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator () transgene to transduce primary airway basal cells from human cystic fibrosis (CF) or non-CF lung donors and monitored expression and function after differentiation. Ussing chamber measurements confirmed CFTR-dependent chloride channel activity in CF donor cells. Immunostaining, quantitative real-time PCR, and single-cell sequencing analysis of cell-type markers indicated that vector transduction or CFTR expression does not alter the formation of pseudostratified, fully differentiated epithelial cell cultures or cell type distribution. These results have important implications for use of gene addition or gene editing strategies as life-long curative approaches for lung genetic diseases."	
34083435	mixed metagenomics	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	A catalog of tens of thousands of viruses from human metagenomes reveals hidden associations with chronic diseases.	"Despite remarkable strides in microbiome research, the viral component of the microbiome has generally presented a more challenging target than the bacteriome. This gap persists, even though many thousands of shotgun sequencing runs from human metagenomic samples exist in public databases, and all of them encompass large amounts of viral sequence data. The lack of a comprehensive database for human-associated viruses has historically stymied efforts to interrogate the impact of the virome on human health. This study probes thousands of datasets to uncover sequences from over 45,000 unique virus taxa, with historically high per-genome completeness. Large publicly available case-control studies are reanalyzed, and over 2,200 strong virus-disease associations are found."	
29732561	human genomics	The Journal of pathology	Small RNA and transcriptome sequencing reveal the role of miR-199a-3p in inflammatory processes in cystic fibrosis airways.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most common lethal genetic disease, caused by CFTR (cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator) gene mutations. CF is characterized by an ionic imbalance and thickened mucus, which impair mucociliary clearance and promote bacterial colonization and the establishment of infection/inflammation cycles. However, the origin of this inflammation remains unclear, although microRNAs (miRNAs) are suspected to be involved. MiRNAs are small non-coding RNAs that bind to the 3'-untranslated regions (UTRs) of target gene mRNA, thereby repressing their translation and/or inducing their degradation. The goal of this study was to investigate the role of microRNAs associated with pulmonary inflammation in CF patients. Through the analysis of all miRNAs (miRNome) in human primary air-liquid interface cultures, we demonstrated that miR-199a-3p is the only miRNA downregulated in CF patients compared to controls. Moreover, through RNA sequencing (transcriptome) analysis, we showed that 50% of all deregulated mRNAs are linked directly or indirectly to the NF-κB pathway. To identify a specific target, we used bioinformatics analysis to predict whether miR-199a-3p targets the 3'-UTR of IKBKB, which encodes IKKβ, a major protein in the NF-κB pathway. Subsequently, we used bronchial explants from CF patients to show that miR-199a-3p expression is downregulated compared to controls and inversely correlated with increases in expression of IKKβ and IL-8. Through functional studies, we showed that miR-199a-3p modulates the expression of IKBKB through a direct interaction at its 3'-UTR in bronchial epithelial cells from CF patients. In miR-199a-3p overexpression experiments, we demonstrated that for CF cells, miR-199a-3p reduced IKKβ protein expression, NF-κB activity, and IL-8 secretion. Taken together, our findings show that miR-199a-3p plays a negative regulatory role in the NF-κB signalling pathway and that its low expression in CF patients contributes to chronic pulmonary inflammation. Copyright © 2018 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd."	
16988269	human genomics	Infection and immunity	Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection of airway epithelial cells modulates expression of Kruppel-like factors 2 and 6 via RsmA-mediated regulation of type III exoenzymes S and Y.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an important opportunistic pathogen which is capable of causing both acute and chronic infections in immunocompromised patients. Successful adaptation of the bacterium to its host environment relies on the ability of the organism to tightly regulate gene expression. RsmA, a small RNA-binding protein, controls the expression of a large number of virulence-related genes in P. aeruginosa, including those encoding the type III secretion system and associated effector proteins, with important consequences for epithelial cell morphology and cytotoxicity. In order to examine the influence of RsmA-regulated functions in the pathogen on gene expression in the host, we compared global expression profiles of airway epithelial cells in response to infection with P. aeruginosa PAO1 and an rsmA mutant. The RsmA-dependent response of host cells was characterized by significant changes in the global transcriptional pattern, including the increased expression of two Kruppel-like factors, KLF2 and KLF6. This increased expression was mediated by specific type III effector proteins. ExoS was required for the enhanced expression of KLF2, whereas both ExoS and ExoY were required for the enhanced expression of KLF6. Neither ExoT nor ExoU influenced the expression of the transcription factors. Additionally, the increased gene expression of KLF2 and KLF6 was associated with ExoS-mediated cytotoxicity. Therefore, this study identifies for the first time the human transcription factors KLF2 and KLF6 as targets of the P. aeruginosa type III exoenzymes S and Y, with potential importance in host cell death."	
11491349	microbial genomics	International journal of systematic and evolutionary microbiology	"Burkholderia ambifaria sp. nov., a novel member of the Burkholderia cepacia complex including biocontrol and cystic fibrosis-related isolates."	"A polyphasic taxonomic study, including amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) fingerprinting, DNA-DNA hybridizations, DNA base-ratio determinations, phylogenetic analysis, whole-cell fatty acid analyses and an extensive biochemical characterization, was performed on 19 Burkholderia cepacia-like isolates from the environment and cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. Several of the environmental isolates have attracted considerable interest due to their biocontrol properties. The polyphasic taxonomic data showed that the strains represent a new member of the B. cepacia complex, for which the name Burkholderia ambifaria sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is strain LMG 19182T. B. ambifaria can be differentiated from the other members of the B. cepacia complex by means of AFLP fingerprinting, whole-cell fatty acid analysis, biochemical tests (including ornithine and lysine decarboxylase activity, acidification of sucrose and beta-haemolysis) and a newly developed recA gene-based PCR assay. 16S rDNA-based RFLP analysis and PCR tests allowed differentiation of B. ambifaria from Burkholderia multivorans, Burkholderia vietnamiensis and B. cepacia genomovar VI, but not from B. cepacia genomovars I and III and Burkholderia stabilis. The finding that this new taxon includes both strains isolated from CF patients and potentially useful biocontrol strains supports the general consensus that the large-scale use of biocontrol strains belonging to the B. cepacia complex would be ill-advised until more is known about their potential pathogenic mechanisms."	
29914989	microbial genomics	Journal of bacteriology	The OmpR Regulator of Burkholderia multivorans Controls Mucoid-to-Nonmucoid Transition and Other Cell Envelope Properties Associated with Persistence in the Cystic Fibrosis Lung.	"Bacteria from the  complex grow in different natural and man-made environments and are feared opportunistic pathogens that cause chronic respiratory infections in cystic fibrosis patients. Previous studies showed that  mucoid clinical isolates grown under stress conditions give rise to nonmucoid variants devoid of the exopolysaccharide cepacian. Here, we determined that a major cause of the nonmucoid morphotype involves nonsynonymous mutations and small indels in the  gene encoding a response regulator of a two-component regulatory system. In  complementation of nonmucoid variants (NMVs) with the native gene restored exopolysaccharide production. The loss of functional  OmpR had positive effects on growth, adhesion to lung epithelial cells, and biofilm formation in high-osmolarity medium, as well as an increase in swimming and swarming motilities. In contrast, phenotypes such as antibiotic resistance, biofilm formation at low osmolarity, and virulence in  were compromised by the absence of functional OmpR. Transcriptomic studies indicated that loss of the  gene affects the expression of 701 genes, many associated with outer membrane composition, motility, stress response, iron acquisition, and the uptake of nutrients, consistent with starvation tolerance. Since the stresses here imposed on  may strongly resemble the ones found in the cystic fibrosis (CF) airways and mutations in the  gene from longitudinally collected CF isolates have been found, this regulator might be important for the production of NMVs in the CF environment. Within the cystic fibrosis (CF) lung, bacteria experience high-osmolarity conditions due to an ion unbalance resulting from defects in CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) protein activity in epithelial cells. Understanding how bacterial CF pathogens thrive in this environment might help the development of new therapeutic interventions to prevent chronic respiratory infections. Here, we show that the OmpR response regulator of one of the species found in CF respiratory infections, , is involved in the emergence of nonmucoid colony variants and is important for osmoadaptation by regulating several cell envelope components. Specifically, genetic, phenotypic, genomic, and transcriptomic approaches uncover OmpR as a regulator of cell wall remodeling under stress conditions, with implications in several phenotypes such as exopolysaccharide production, motility, antibiotic resistance, adhesion, and virulence."	
25640674	human genomics	American journal of human genetics	Gene expression in transformed lymphocytes reveals variation in endomembrane and HLA pathways modifying cystic fibrosis pulmonary phenotypes.	"Variation in cystic fibrosis (CF) phenotypes, including lung disease severity, age of onset of persistent Pseudomonas aeruginosa (P. aeruginosa) lung infection, and presence of meconium ileus (MI), has been partially explained by genome-wide association studies (GWASs). It is not expected that GWASs alone are sufficiently powered to uncover all heritable traits associated with CF phenotypic diversity. Therefore, we utilized gene expression association from lymphoblastoid cells lines from 754 p.Phe508del CF-affected homozygous individuals to identify genes and pathways. LPAR6, a G protein coupled receptor, associated with lung disease severity (false discovery rate q value = 0.0006). Additional pathway analyses, utilizing a stringent permutation-based approach, identified unique signals for all three phenotypes. Pathways associated with lung disease severity were annotated in three broad categories: (1) endomembrane function, containing p.Phe508del processing genes, providing evidence of the importance of p.Phe508del processing to explain lung phenotype variation; (2) HLA class I genes, extending previous GWAS findings in the HLA region; and (3) endoplasmic reticulum stress response genes. Expression pathways associated with lung disease were concordant for some endosome and HLA pathways, with pathways identified using GWAS associations from 1,978 CF-affected individuals. Pathways associated with age of onset of persistent P. aeruginosa infection were enriched for HLA class II genes, and those associated with MI were related to oxidative phosphorylation. Formal testing demonstrated that genes showing differential expression associated with lung disease severity were enriched for heritable genetic variation and expression quantitative traits. Gene expression provided a powerful tool to identify unrecognized heritable variation, complementing ongoing GWASs in this rare disease."	
21935417	microbial genomics	PloS one	Pseudomonas aeruginosa AES-1 exhibits increased virulence gene expression during chronic infection of cystic fibrosis lung.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa, the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in people with cystic fibrosis (CF), adapts for survival in the CF lung through both mutation and gene expression changes. Frequent clonal strains such as the Australian Epidemic Strain-1 (AES-1), have increased ability to establish infection in the CF lung and to superimpose and replace infrequent clonal strains. Little is known about the factors underpinning these properties. Analysis has been hampered by lack of expression array templates containing CF-strain specific genes. We sequenced the genome of an acute infection AES-1 isolate from a CF infant (AES-1R) and constructed a non-redundant micro-array (PANarray) comprising AES-1R and seven other sequenced P. aeruginosa genomes. The unclosed AES-1R genome comprised 6.254Mbp and contained 6957 putative genes, including 338 not found in the other seven genomes. The PANarray contained 12,543 gene probe spots; comprising 12,147 P. aeruginosa gene probes, 326 quality-control probes and 70 probes for non-P. aeruginosa genes, including phage and plant genes. We grew AES-1R and its isogenic pair AES-1M, taken from the same patient 10.5 years later and not eradicated in the intervening period, in our validated artificial sputum medium (ASMDM) and used the PANarray to compare gene expression of both in duplicate. 675 genes were differentially expressed between the isogenic pairs, including upregulation of alginate, biofilm, persistence genes and virulence-related genes such as dihydroorotase, uridylate kinase and cardiolipin synthase, in AES-1M. Non-PAO1 genes upregulated in AES-1M included pathogenesis-related (PAGI-5) genes present in strains PACS2 and PA7, and numerous phage genes. Elucidation of these genes' roles could lead to targeted treatment strategies for chronically infected CF patients."	
33013356	human genomics	Frontiers in pharmacology	CFTR Modulator Therapy Enhances Peripheral Blood Monocyte Contributions to Immune Responses in People With Cystic Fibrosis.	"CFTR modulators decrease some etiologies of CF airway inflammation; however, data indicate that non-resolving airway infection and inflammation persist in individuals with CF and chronic bacterial infections. Thus, identification of therapies that diminish airway inflammation without allowing unrestrained bacterial growth remains a critical research goal. Novel strategies for combatting deleterious airway inflammation in the CFTR modulator era require better understanding of cellular contributions to chronic CF airway disease, and how inflammatory cells change after initiation of CFTR modulator therapy. Peripheral blood monocytes, which traffic to the CF airway, can develop both pro-inflammatory and inflammation-resolving phenotypes, represent intriguing cellular targets for focused therapies. This therapeutic approach, however, requires a more detailed knowledge of CF monocyte cellular programming and phenotypes. In order to characterize the inflammatory phenotype of CF monocytes, and how these cells change after initiation of CFTR modulator therapy, we studied adults (n=10) with CF, chronic airway infections, and the  mutations before and 7 days after initiation of ivacaftor. Transcriptomes of freshly isolated blood monocytes were interrogated by RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) followed by pathway-based analyses. Plasma concentrations of cytokines and chemokines were evaluated by multiplex ELISA. RNAseq identified approximately 50 monocyte genes for which basal expression was significantly changed in all 10 subjects after 7 days of ivacaftor. Of these, the majority were increased in expression post ivacaftor, including many genes traditionally associated with enhanced inflammation and immune responses. Pathway analyses confirmed that transcriptional programs were overwhelmingly up-regulated in monocytes after 7 days of ivacaftor, including biological modules associated with immunity, cell cycle, oxidative phosphorylation, and the unfolded protein response. Ivacaftor increased plasma concentrations of CXCL2, a neutrophil chemokine secreted by monocytes and macrophages, and CCL2, a monocyte chemokine. Our results demonstrate that ivacaftor causes acute changes in blood monocyte transcriptional profiles and plasma chemokines, and suggest that increased monocyte inflammatory signals and changes in myeloid cell trafficking may contribute to changes in airway inflammation in people taking CFTR modulators. To our knowledge, this is the first report investigating the transcriptomic response of circulating blood monocytes in CF subjects treated with a CFTR modulator."	
35735984	microbial genomics	Microbiology spectrum	"{'i': ['N', 'N'], '#text': 'Activity of -Acetylcysteine Alone and in Combination with Colistin against Pseudomonas aeruginosa Biofilms and Transcriptomic Response to -Acetylcysteine Exposure.'}"	"Chronic colonization by Pseudomonas aeruginosa is critical in cystic fibrosis (CF) and other chronic lung diseases, contributing to disease progression. Biofilm growth and a propensity to evolve multidrug resistance phenotypes drastically limit the available therapeutic options. In this perspective, there has been growing interest in evaluating combination therapies, especially for drugs that can be administered by nebulization, which allows high drug concentrations to be reached at the site of infections while limiting systemic toxicity. Here, we investigated the potential antibiofilm activity of -acetylcysteine (NAC) alone and in combination with colistin against a panel of P. aeruginosa strains (most of which are from CF patients) and the transcriptomic response of a P. aeruginosa CF strain to NAC exposure. NAC alone (8,000 mg/L) showed a limited and strain-dependent antibiofilm activity. Nonetheless, a relevant antibiofilm synergism of NAC-colistin combinations (NAC at 8,000 mg/L plus colistin at 2 to 32 mg/L) was observed with all strains. Synergism was also confirmed with the artificial sputum medium model. RNA sequencing of NAC-exposed planktonic cultures revealed that NAC (8,000 mg/L) mainly induced (i) a Zn starvation response (known to induce attenuation of P. aeruginosa virulence), (ii) downregulation of genes of the denitrification apparatus, and (iii) downregulation of flagellar biosynthesis pathway. NAC-mediated inhibition of P. aeruginosa denitrification pathway and flagellum-mediated motility were confirmed experimentally. These findings suggested that NAC-colistin combinations might contribute to the management of biofilm-associated P. aeruginosa lung infections. NAC might also have a role in reducing P. aeruginosa virulence, which could be relevant in the very early stages of lung colonization.  Pseudomonas aeruginosa biofilm-related chronic lung colonization contributes to cystic fibrosis (CF) disease progression. Colistin is often a last-resort antibiotic for the treatment of such P. aeruginosa infections, and it has been increasingly used in CF, especially by nebulization. -acetylcysteine (NAC) is a mucolytic agent with antioxidant activity, commonly administered with antibiotics for the treatment of lower respiratory tract infections. Here, we show that NAC potentiated colistin activity against  biofilms models of P. aeruginosa strains, with both drugs tested at the high concentrations achievable after nebulization. In addition, we report the first transcriptomic data on the P. aeruginosa response to NAC exposure."	
38275975	microbial genomics	Viruses	The Inovirus Pf4 Triggers Antiviral Responses and Disrupts the Proliferation of Airway Basal Epithelial Cells.	"The inovirus Pf4 is a lysogenic bacteriophage of  (). People with Cystic Fibrosis (pwCF) experience chronic airway infection with  and a significant proportion have high numbers of Pf4 in their airway secretions. Given the known severe damage in the airways of -infected pwCF, we hypothesized a high Pf4 burden can affect airway healing and inflammatory responses. In the airway, basal epithelial cells (BCs) are a multipotent stem cell population critical to epithelium homeostasis and repair. We sought to investigate the transcriptional responses of BCs under conditions that emulate infection with  and exposure to high Pf4 burden. Primary BCs isolated from pwCF and wild-type (WT) donors were cultured in vitro and exposed to Pf4 or bacterial Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) followed by transcriptomic and functional assays. We found that BCs internalized Pf4 and this elicits a strong antiviral response as well as neutrophil chemokine production. Further, we found that BCs that take up Pf4 demonstrate defective migration and proliferation. Our findings are highly suggestive of Pf4 playing a role in the pathogenicity of  in the airways. These findings provide additional evidence for the ability of inoviruses to interact with mammalian cells and disrupt cell function."	
27161630	microbial genomics	Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy	Glutathione-Disrupted Biofilms of Clinical Pseudomonas aeruginosa Strains Exhibit an Enhanced Antibiotic Effect and a Novel Biofilm Transcriptome.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections result in high morbidity and mortality rates for individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF), with premature death often occurring. These infections are complicated by the formation of biofilms in the sputum. Antibiotic therapy is stymied by antibiotic resistance of the biofilm matrix, making novel antibiofilm strategies highly desirable. Within P. aeruginosa biofilms, the redox factor pyocyanin enhances biofilm integrity by intercalating with extracellular DNA. The antioxidant glutathione (GSH) reacts with pyocyanin, disrupting intercalation. This study investigated GSH disruption by assaying the physiological effects of GSH and DNase I on biofilms of clinical CF isolates grown in CF artificial sputum medium (ASMDM+). Confocal scanning laser microscopy showed that 2 mM GSH, alone or combined with DNase I, significantly disrupted immature (24-h) biofilms of Australian epidemic strain (AES) isogens AES-1R and AES-1M. GSH alone greatly disrupted mature (72-h) AES-1R biofilms, resulting in significant differential expression of 587 genes, as indicated by RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis. Upregulated systems included cyclic diguanylate and pyoverdine biosynthesis, the type VI secretion system, nitrate metabolism, and translational machinery. Biofilm disruption with GSH revealed a cellular physiology distinct from those of mature and dispersed biofilms. RNA-seq results were validated by biochemical and quantitative PCR assays. Biofilms of a range of CF isolates disrupted with GSH and DNase I were significantly more susceptible to ciprofloxacin, and increased antibiotic effectiveness was achieved by increasing the GSH concentration. This study demonstrated that GSH, alone or with DNase I, represents an effective antibiofilm treatment when combined with appropriate antibiotics, pending in vivo studies."	
14583596	human genomics	Physiological genomics	Gene expression profile analysis of 4-phenylbutyrate treatment of IB3-1 bronchial epithelial cell line demonstrates a major influence on heat-shock proteins.	"Most individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF) carry one or two mutations that result in a maturation defect of the full-length CFTR protein. The DeltaF508 mutation results in a mutant protein that is degraded by the proteosome instead of progressing to the apical membrane where it functions as a cAMP-regulated chloride channel. 4-Phenylbutyrate (PBA) modulates heat-shock protein expression and promotes trafficking of DeltaF508, thus permitting maturation and membrane insertion. The goal of this study was to gain insight into the genetic mechanism of PBA action through a large-scale analysis of gene expression. The Affymetrix genome-spanning U133 microarray set was used to compare mRNA expression levels in untreated IB3-1 cell line cultures with cultures treated with 1 mM PBA for 12 and 24 h. The most notable changes in mRNA levels were transient elevations in heat-shock proteins. The majority of genes downregulated throughout the application period were functionally associated with control of gene expression. Another set of genes increased in expression starting at 24 h, suggesting these are downstream effects of altered gene expression initiated by PBA. More than one-third of the genes in this late expressing set were identified as having potential significance in understanding the pathology of CF. Our results demonstrate the usefulness of gene expression profile analysis in understanding the consequences of PBA treatment and provide insights in how this drug exerts its effect on the trafficking of CFTR."	
23105085	microbial genomics	Journal of bacteriology	Draft genome sequence determination for cystic fibrosis and chronic granulomatous disease Burkholderia multivorans isolates.	"Burkholderia multivorans is a Gram-negative bacterium and a member of the Burkholderia cepacia complex, which is frequently associated with respiratory infections in people with cystic fibrosis (CF) and chronic granulomatous disease (CGD). We are reporting the genome sequences of 4 B. multivorans strains, 2 from CF patients and 2 from CGD patients."	
24136845	microbial genomics	Genome announcements	Draft Genome Sequences of Pseudomonas aeruginosa B3 Strains Isolated from a Cystic Fibrosis Patient Undergoing Antibiotic Chemotherapy.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa frequently establishes chronic infections in the airways of patients suffering from cystic fibrosis (CF). Here, we report the draft genome sequences of four P. aeruginosa B3 strains isolated from a chronically infected CF patient undergoing antibiotic chemotherapy."	
28095778	microbial genomics	BMC genomics	The pangenome of (Antarctic) Pseudoalteromonas bacteria: evolutionary and functional insights.	"Pseudoalteromonas is a genus of ubiquitous marine bacteria used as model organisms to study the biological mechanisms involved in the adaptation to cold conditions. A remarkable feature shared by these bacteria is their ability to produce secondary metabolites with a strong antimicrobial and antitumor activity. Despite their biotechnological relevance, representatives of this genus are still lacking (with few exceptions) an extensive genomic characterization, including features involved in the evolution of secondary metabolites production. Indeed, biotechnological applications would greatly benefit from such analysis. Here, we analyzed the genomes of 38 strains belonging to different Pseudoalteromonas species and isolated from diverse ecological niches, including extreme ones (i.e. Antarctica). These sequences were used to reconstruct the largest Pseudoalteromonas pangenome computed so far, including also the two main groups of Pseudoalteromonas strains (pigmented and not pigmented strains). The downstream analyses were conducted to describe the genomic diversity, both at genus and group levels. This allowed highlighting a remarkable genomic heterogeneity, even for closely related strains. We drafted all the main evolutionary steps that led to the current structure and gene content of Pseudoalteromonas representatives. These, most likely, included an extensive genome reduction and a strong contribution of Horizontal Gene Transfer (HGT), which affected biotechnologically relevant gene sets and occurred in a strain-specific fashion. Furthermore, this study also identified the genomic determinants related to some of the most interesting features of the Pseudoalteromonas representatives, such as the production of secondary metabolites, the adaptation to cold temperatures and the resistance to abiotic compounds. This study poses the bases for a comprehensive understanding of the evolutionary trajectories followed in time by this peculiar bacterial genus and for a focused exploitation of their biotechnological potential."	
24285816	microbial genomics	Clinical and vaccine immunology : CVI	Absence of an important vaccine and diagnostic target in carriage- and disease-related nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae.	"Nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHi)-associated disease is a major health problem globally. Whole-genome sequence analysis identified the absence of hpd genes encoding Haemophilus protein D in 3 of 16 phylogenetically distinct NTHi isolates. This novel finding is of potential clinical significance, as protein D and hpd represent important NTHi vaccine antigen and diagnostic targets, respectively."	
31590401	human genomics	International journal of molecular sciences	Transforming Growth Factor-β1 Selectively Recruits microRNAs to the RNA-Induced Silencing Complex and Degrades CFTR mRNA under Permissive Conditions in Human Bronchial Epithelial Cells.	"<p>Mutations in the Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane Conductance Regulator (<italic>CFTR</italic>) gene lead to cystic fibrosis (CF). The most common mutation F508del inhibits folding and processing of CFTR protein. FDA-approved correctors rescue the biosynthetic processing of F508del-CFTR protein, while potentiators improve the rescued CFTR channel function. Transforming growth factor (TGF-β1), overexpressed in many CF patients, blocks corrector/potentiator rescue by inhibiting CFTR mRNA in vitro. Increased TGF-β1 signaling and acquired CFTR dysfunction are present in other lung diseases. To study the mechanism of TGF-β1 repression of CFTR, we used molecular, biochemical, and functional approaches in primary human bronchial epithelial cells from over 50 donors. TGF-β1 destabilized CFTR mRNA in cells from lungs with chronic disease, including CF, and impaired F508del-CFTR rescue by new-generation correctors. TGF-β1 increased the active pool of selected micro(mi)RNAs validated as CFTR inhibitors, recruiting them to the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC). Expression of F508del-CFTR globally modulated TGF-β1-induced changes in the miRNA landscape, creating a permissive environment required for degradation of F508del-CFTR mRNA. In conclusion, TGF-β1 may impede the full benefit of corrector/potentiator therapy in CF patients. Studying miRNA recruitment to RISC under disease-specific conditions may help to better characterize the miRNAs utilized by TGF-β1 to destabilize CFTR mRNA."	
26884275	microbial genomics	BMC genomics	Genome-wide mosaicism within Mycobacterium abscessus: evolutionary and epidemiological implications.	"In mycobacteria, conjugation differs from the canonical Hfr model, but is still poorly understood. Here, we quantified this evolutionary processe in a natural mycobacterial population, taking advantage of a large clinical strain collection of the emerging pathogen Mycobacterium abscessus (MAB). Multilocus sequence typing confirmed the existence of three M. abscessus subspecies, and unravelled extensive allelic exchange between them. Furthermore, an asymmetrical gene flow occurring between these main lineages was detected, resulting in highly admixed strains. Intriguingly, these mosaic strains were significantly associated with cystic fibrosis patients with lung infections or chronic colonization. Genome sequencing of those hybrid strains confirmed that half of their genomic content was remodelled in large genomic blocks, leading to original tri-modal 'patchwork' architecture. One of these hybrid strains acquired a locus conferring inducible macrolide resistance, and a large genomic insertion from a slowly growing pathogenic mycobacteria, suggesting an adaptive gene transfer. This atypical genomic architecture of the highly recombinogenic strains is consistent with the distributive conjugal transfer (DCT) observed in M. smegmatis. Intriguingly, no known DCT function was found in M. abscessus chromosome, however, a p-RAW-like genetic element was detected in one of the highly admixed strains. Taken together, our results strongly suggest that MAB evolution is sporadically punctuated by dramatic genome wide remodelling events. These findings might have far reaching epidemiological consequences for emerging mycobacterial pathogens survey in the context of increasing numbers of rapidly growing mycobacteria and M. tuberculosis co-infections."	
26371248	human genomics	"Journal of immunology (Baltimore, Md. : 1950)"	Fibrocytes Regulate Wilms Tumor 1-Positive Cell Accumulation in Severe Fibrotic Lung Disease.	"Collagen-producing myofibroblast transdifferentiation is considered a crucial determinant in the formation of scar tissue in the lungs of patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Multiple resident pulmonary cell types and bone marrow-derived fibrocytes have been implicated as contributors to fibrotic lesions because of the transdifferentiation potential of these cells into myofibroblasts. In this study, we assessed the expression of Wilms tumor 1 (WT1), a known marker of mesothelial cells, in various cell types in normal and fibrotic lungs. We demonstrate that WT1 is expressed by both mesothelial and mesenchymal cells in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis lungs but has limited or no expression in normal human lungs. We also demonstrate that WT1(+) cells accumulate in fibrotic lung lesions, using two different mouse models of pulmonary fibrosis and WT1 promoter-driven fluorescent reporter mice. Reconstitution of bone marrow cells into a TGF-α transgenic mouse model demonstrated that fibrocytes do not transform into WT1(+) mesenchymal cells, but they do augment accumulation of WT1(+) cells in severe fibrotic lung disease. Importantly, the number of WT1(+) cells in fibrotic lesions was correlated with severity of lung disease as assessed by changes in lung function, histology, and hydroxyproline levels in mice. Finally, inhibition of WT1 expression was sufficient to attenuate collagen and other extracellular matrix gene production by mesenchymal cells from both murine and human fibrotic lungs. Thus, the results of this study demonstrate a novel association between fibrocyte-driven WT1(+) cell accumulation and severe fibrotic lung disease."	
26950319	microbial genomics	Genome announcements	"Genome Sequence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa Strain DK1-NH57388A, a Stable Mucoid Cystic Fibrosis Isolate."	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an important opportunistic pathogen associated with chronic pulmonary infections and mortality in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. Here, we present the complete genome sequence of stable mucoid P. aeruginosa strain DK1-NH57388A, a CF isolate which has previously been used to establish chronic lung infections in an animal model."	
36217144	human genomics	Respiratory research	Comparative transcriptomics in human COPD reveals dysregulated genes uniquely expressed in ferrets.	"Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a progressive lung disease with poor treatment options. However, most mouse models of COPD produce a primarily emphysematous disease not recapitulating clinically meaningful COPD features like chronic bronchitis. Wild-type ferrets (Mustela putorius furo) were divided randomly into two groups: whole body cigarette smoke exposure and air controls. Ferrets were exposed to smoke from 1R6F research cigarettes, twice daily for six months. RNA-sequencing was performed on RNA isolated from lung tissue. Comparative transcriptomics analyses of COPD in ferrets, mice, and humans were done to find the uniquely expressed genes. Further, Real-time PCR was performed to confirmed RNA-Seq data on multiple selected genes. RNA-sequence analysis identified 420 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) that were associated with the development of COPD in ferrets. By comparative analysis, we identified 25 DEGs that are uniquely expressed in ferrets and humans, but not mice. Among DEGs, a number were related to mucociliary clearance (NEK-6, HAS1, and KL), while others have been correlated with abnormal lung function (IL-18), inflammation (TREM1, CTSB), or oxidative stress (SRX1, AHRR). Multiple cellular pathways were aberrantly altered in the COPD ferret model, including pathways associated with COPD pathogenesis in humans. Validation of these selected unique DEGs using real-time PCR demonstrated > absolute 2-fold changes in mRNA versus air controls, consistent with RNA-seq analysis. Cigarette smoke-induced COPD in ferrets modulates gene expression consistent with human COPD and suggests that the ferret model may be uniquely well suited for the study of aspects of the disease."	
28400528	microbial genomics	mBio	"{'i': 'Burkholderia pseudomallei', '#text': 'Within-Host Evolution of  during Chronic Infection of Seven Australasian Cystic Fibrosis Patients.'}"	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a genetic disorder characterized by progressive lung function decline. CF patients are at an increased risk of respiratory infections, including those by the environmental bacterium , the causative agent of melioidosis. Here, we compared the genomes of  isolates collected between ~4 and 55 months apart from seven chronically infected CF patients. Overall, the  strains showed evolutionary patterns similar to those of other chronic infections, including emergence of antibiotic resistance, genome reduction, and deleterious mutations in genes involved in virulence, metabolism, environmental survival, and cell wall components. We documented the first reported  hypermutators, which were likely caused by defective MutS. Further, our study identified both known and novel molecular mechanisms conferring resistance to three of the five clinically important antibiotics for melioidosis treatment. Our report highlights the exquisite adaptability of microorganisms to long-term persistence in their environment and the ongoing challenges of antibiotic treatment in eradicating pathogens in the CF lung. Convergent evolution with other CF pathogens hints at a degree of predictability in bacterial evolution in the CF lung and potential targeted eradication of chronic CF infections in the future., the causative agent of melioidosis, is an environmental opportunistic bacterium that typically infects immunocompromised people and those with certain risk factors such as cystic fibrosis (CF). Patients with CF tend to develop chronic melioidosis infections, for reasons that are not well understood. This report is the first to describe  evolution within the CF lung during chronic infection. We show that the pathways by which  adapts to the CF lung are similar to those seen in better-studied CF pathogens such as , , and  complex species. Adaptations include the accumulation of antibiotic resistance, loss of nonessential genes, metabolic alterations, and virulence factor attenuation. Known and novel mechanisms of resistance to three of the five antibiotics used in melioidosis treatment were identified. Similar pathways of evolution in CF pathogens, including , provide exciting avenues for more-targeted treatment of chronic, recalcitrant infections."	
21851621	metagenomics	BMC microbiology	Bacterial adaptation during chronic infection revealed by independent component analysis of transcriptomic data.	"Bacteria employ a variety of adaptation strategies during the course of chronic infections. Understanding bacterial adaptation can facilitate the identification of novel drug targets for better treatment of infectious diseases. Transcriptome profiling is a comprehensive and high-throughput approach for characterization of bacterial clinical isolates from infections. However, exploitation of the complex, noisy and high-dimensional transcriptomic dataset is difficult and often hindered by low statistical power. In this study, we have applied two kinds of unsupervised analysis methods, principle component analysis (PCA) and independent component analysis (ICA), to extract and characterize the most informative features from transcriptomic dataset generated from cystic fibrosis (CF) Pseudomonas aeruginosa isolates. ICA was shown to be able to efficiently extract biological meaningful features from the transcriptomic dataset and improve clustering patterns of CF isolates. Decomposition of the transcriptomic dataset by ICA also facilitates gene identification and gene ontology enrichment. Our results show that P. aeruginosa employs multiple patient-specific adaption strategies during the early stage infections while certain essential adaptations are evolved in parallel during the chronic infections."	?
20023018	microbial genomics	Journal of bacteriology	Genome diversity of Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 laboratory strains.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 is the most commonly used strain for research on this ubiquitous and metabolically versatile opportunistic pathogen. Strain PAO1, a derivative of the original Australian PAO isolate, has been distributed worldwide to laboratories and strain collections. Over decades discordant phenotypes of PAO1 sublines have emerged. Taking the existing PAO1-UW genome sequence (named after the University of Washington, which led the sequencing project) as a blueprint, the genome sequences of reference strains MPAO1 and PAO1-DSM (stored at the German Collection for Microorganisms and Cell Cultures [DSMZ]) were resolved by physical mapping and deep short read sequencing-by-synthesis. MPAO1 has been the source of near-saturation libraries of transposon insertion mutants, and PAO1-DSM is identical in its SpeI-DpnI restriction map with the original isolate. The major genomic differences of MPAO1 and PAO1-DSM in comparison to PAO1-UW are the lack of a large inversion, a duplication of a mobile 12-kb prophage region carrying a distinct integrase and protein phosphatases or kinases, deletions of 3 to 1,006 bp in size, and at least 39 single-nucleotide substitutions, 17 of which affect protein sequences. The PAO1 sublines differed in their ability to cope with nutrient limitation and their virulence in an acute murine airway infection model. Subline PAO1-DSM outnumbered the two other sublines in late stationary growth phase. In conclusion, P. aeruginosa PAO1 shows an ongoing microevolution of genotype and phenotype that jeopardizes the reproducibility of research. High-throughput genome resequencing will resolve more cases and could become a proper quality control for strain collections."	
26431321	microbial genomics	PloS one	Genetically and Phenotypically Distinct Pseudomonas aeruginosa Cystic Fibrosis Isolates Share a Core Proteomic Signature.	"The opportunistic pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa is among the main colonizers of the lungs of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. We have isolated and sequenced several P. aeruginosa isolates from the sputum of CF patients and compared them with each other and with the model strain PAO1. Phenotypic analysis of CF isolates showed significant variability in colonization and virulence-related traits suggesting different strategies for adaptation to the CF lung. Genomic analysis indicated these strains shared a large set of core genes with the standard laboratory strain PAO1, and identified the genetic basis for some of the observed phenotypic differences. Proteomics revealed that in a conventional laboratory medium PAO1 expressed 827 proteins that were absent in the CF isolates while the CF isolates shared a distinctive signature set of 703 proteins not detected in PAO1. PAO1 expressed many transporters for the uptake of organic nutrients and relatively few biosynthetic pathways. Conversely, the CF isolates expressed a narrower range of transporters and a broader set of metabolic pathways for the biosynthesis of amino acids, carbohydrates, nucleotides and polyamines. The proteomic data suggests that in a common laboratory medium PAO1 may transport a diverse set of ""ready-made"" nutrients from the rich medium, whereas the CF isolates may only utilize a limited number of nutrients from the medium relying mainly on their own metabolism for synthesis of essential nutrients. These variations indicate significant differences between the metabolism and physiology of P. aeruginosa CF isolates and PAO1 that cannot be detected at the genome level alone. The widening gap between the increasing genomic data and the lack of phenotypic data means that researchers are increasingly reliant on extrapolating from genomic comparisons using experimentally characterized model organisms such as PAO1. While comparative genomics can provide valuable information, our data suggests that such extrapolations may be fraught with peril."	
26519161	microbial genomics	BMC genomics	Genotypic and phenotypic analyses of a Pseudomonas aeruginosa chronic bronchiectasis isolate reveal differences from cystic fibrosis and laboratory strains.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an environmentally ubiquitous Gram-negative bacterium and important opportunistic human pathogen, causing severe chronic respiratory infections in patients with underlying conditions such as cystic fibrosis (CF) or bronchiectasis. In order to identify mechanisms responsible for adaptation during bronchiectasis infections, a bronchiectasis isolate, PAHM4, was phenotypically and genotypically characterized. This strain displays phenotypes that have been associated with chronic respiratory infections in CF including alginate over-production, rough lipopolysaccharide, quorum-sensing deficiency, loss of motility, decreased protease secretion, and hypermutation. Hypermutation is a key adaptation of this bacterium during the course of chronic respiratory infections and analysis indicates that PAHM4 encodes a mutated mutS gene responsible for a ~1,000-fold increase in mutation rate compared to wild-type laboratory strain P. aeruginosa PAO1. Antibiotic resistance profiles and sequence data indicate that this strain acquired numerous mutations associated with increased resistance levels to β-lactams, aminoglycosides, and fluoroquinolones when compared to PAO1. Sequencing of PAHM4 revealed a 6.38 Mbp genome, 5.9 % of which were unrecognized in previously reported P. aeruginosa genome sequences. Transcriptome analysis suggests a general down-regulation of virulence factors, while metabolism of amino acids and lipids is up-regulated when compared to PAO1 and metabolic modeling identified further potential differences between PAO1 and PAHM4. This work provides insights into the potential differential adaptation of this bacterium to the lung of patients with bronchiectasis compared to other clinical settings such as cystic fibrosis, findings that should aid the development of disease-appropriate treatment strategies for P. aeruginosa infections."	
26823574	microbial genomics	Genome announcements	Draft Genome Sequences of Five Pseudomonas aeruginosa Clinical Strains Isolated from Sputum Samples from Cystic Fibrosis Patients.	We report here the draft genome sequences of five Pseudomonas aeruginosa isolates obtained from sputum samples from two cystic fibrosis patients with chronic colonization. These closely related strains harbor 225 to 493 genes absent from the P. aeruginosa POA1 genome and contain 178 to 179 virulence factors and 29 to 31 antibiotic resistance genes.	
34100027	human genomics	medRxiv : the preprint server for health sciences	Immune transcriptomes from hospitalized patients infected with the SARS-CoV-2 variants B.1.1.7 and B.1.1.7 carrying the E484K escape mutation.	"Fast-spreading variants of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) energize the COVID-19 pandemic. B.1.1.7 (VOC-202012/01) has become the predominant variant in many countries and a new lineage (VOC-202102/02) harboring the E484K escape mutation in the B.1.1.7 background emerged in February 2021  . This variant is of concern due to reduced neutralizing activity by vaccine-elicited antibodies  . However, it is not known whether this single amino acid change leads to an altered immune response. Here, we investigate differences in the immune transcriptome in hospitalized patients infected with either B.1.1.7 (n=28) or B.1.1.7+E484K (n=12). RNA-seq conducted on PBMCs isolated within five days after the onset of COVID symptoms demonstrated elevated activation of specific immune pathways, including JAK-STAT signaling, in B.1.1.7+E484K patients as compared to B.1.1.7. Longitudinal transcriptome studies demonstrated a delayed dampening of interferon-activated pathways in B.1.1.7+E484K patients. Prior vaccination with BNT162b vaccine (n=8 one dose; n=1 two doses) reduced the transcriptome inflammatory response to B.1.1.7+E484K infection relative to unvaccinated patients. Lastly, the immune transcriptome of patients infected with additional variants (B.1.258, B.1.1.163 and B.1.7.7) displayed a reduced activation compared to patients infected with B.1.1.7. Acquisition of the E484K substitution in the B.1.1.7 background elicits an altered immune response, which could impact disease progression."	
14715526	human genomics	American journal of physiology. Gastrointestinal and liver physiology	Abnormal Paneth cell granule dissolution and compromised resistance to bacterial colonization in the intestine of CF mice.	"Paneth cells of intestinal crypts contribute to host defense by producing antimicrobial peptides that are packaged as granules for secretion into the crypt lumen. Here, we provide evidence using light and electron microscopy that postsecretory Paneth cell granules undergo limited dissolution and accumulate within the intestinal crypts of cystic fibrosis (CF) mice. On the basis of this finding, we evaluated bacterial colonization and expression of two major constituents of Paneth cells, i.e., alpha-defensins (cryptdins) and lysozyme, in CF murine intestine. Paneth cell granules accumulated in intestinal crypt lumens in both untreated CF mice with impending intestinal obstruction and in CF mice treated with an osmotic laxative that prevented overt clinical symptoms and mucus accretion. Ultrastructure studies indicated little change in granule morphology within mucus casts, whereas granules in laxative-treated mice appear to undergo limited dissolution. Protein extracts from CF intestine had increased levels of processed cryptdins compared with those from wild-type (WT) littermates. Nonetheless, colonization with aerobic bacteria species was not diminished in the CF intestine and oral challenge with a cryptdin-sensitive enteric pathogen, Salmonella typhimurium, resulted in greater colonization of CF compared with WT intestine. Modest downregulation of cryptdin and lysozyme mRNA in CF intestine was shown by microarray analysis, real-time quantitative PCR, and Northern blot analysis. Based on these findings, we conclude that antimicrobial peptide activity in CF mouse intestine is compromised by inadequate dissolution of Paneth cell granules within the crypt lumens."	
24336371	microbial genomics	Genome announcements	"Draft Genome Sequences of Two Alginate-Overproducing Variants of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, PAO1-VE2 and PAO1-VE13."	"The small envelope protein MucE and the sensor kinase KinB are a positive and negative alginate regulator, respectively. Here, we announce the draft genome sequences of the alginate-overproducing variants Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1-VE2 (PAO1 with constitutive expression of mucE) and PAO1-VE13 (PAO1 with kinB inactivated). Both mutants were generated from a transposon mutagenesis screen."	
32208458	microbial genomics	PLoS pathogens	Surfing motility is a complex adaptation dependent on the stringent stress response in Pseudomonas aeruginosa LESB58.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a genetic disease that affects mucin-producing body organs such as the lungs. Characteristic of CF is the production of thick, viscous mucus, containing the glycoprotein mucin, that can lead to progressive airway obstruction. Recently, we demonstrated that the presence of mucin induced a rapid surface adaptation in motile bacteria termed surfing motility, which data presented here indicates is very different from swarming motility. Pseudomonas aeruginosa, the main colonizing pathogen in CF, employs several stress coping mechanisms to survive the highly viscous environment of the CF lung. We used motility-based assays and RNA-Seq to study the stringent stress response in the hypervirulent CF isolate LESB58 (Liverpool Epidemic Strain). Motility experiments revealed that an LESB58 stringent response mutant (ΔrelAΔspoT) was unable to surf. Transcriptional profiling of ΔrelAΔspoT mutant cells from surfing agar plates, when compared to wild-type cells from the surfing edge, revealed 2,584 dysregulated genes. Gene Ontology and KEGG enrichment analysis revealed effects of the stringent response on amino acid, nucleic acid and fatty acid metabolism, TCA cycle and glycolysis, type VI secretion, as well as chemotaxis, cell communication, iron transport, nitrogen metabolic processes and cyclic-di-GMP signalling. Screening of the ordered PA14 transposon library revealed 224 mutants unable to surf and very limited overlap with genes required for swarming. Mutants affecting surfing included two downstream effector genes of the stringent stress response, the copper regulator cueR and the quinolone synthase pqsH. Both the cueR and pqsH cloned genes complemented the surfing deficiency of ΔrelAΔspoT. Our study revealed insights into stringent stress dependency in LESB58 and showed that surfing motility is stringently-controlled via the expression of cueR and pqsH. Downstream factors of the stringent stress response are important to investigate in order to fully understand its ability to colonize and persist in the CF lung."	
15494517	human genomics	"Journal of immunology (Baltimore, Md. : 1950)"	Pseudomonas aeruginosa flagellin and alginate elicit very distinct gene expression patterns in airway epithelial cells: implications for cystic fibrosis disease.	"Infection with the opportunistic pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa remains a major health concern. Two P. aeruginosa phenotypes relevant in human disease include motility and mucoidy. Motility is characterized by the presence of flagella and is essential in the establishment of acute infections, while mucoidy, defined by the production of the exopolysaccharide alginate, is critical in the development of chronic infections, such as the infections seen in cystic fibrosis patients. Indeed, chronic infection of the lung by mucoid P. aeruginosa is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in cystic fibrosis patients. We have used Calu-3 human airway epithelial cells to investigate global responses to infection with motile and mucoid P. aeruginosa. The response of airway epithelial cells to exposure to P. aeruginosa motile strains is characterized by a specific increase in gene expression in pathways controlling inflammation and host defense. By contrast, the response of airway epithelia to the stimuli presented by mucoid P. aeruginosa is not proinflammatory and, hence, may not be conducive to the effective elimination of the pathogen. The pattern of gene expression directed by flagellin, but not alginate, includes innate host defense genes, proinflammatory cytokines, and chemokines. By contrast, infection with alginate-producing P. aeruginosa results in an overall attenuation of host responses and an antiapoptotic effect."	
27866042	human genomics	Gene	Carcinogenic effects of oil dispersants: A KEGG pathway-based RNA-seq study of human airway epithelial cells.	"The health impacts of the BP oil spill are yet to be further revealed as the toxicological effects of oil products and dispersants on human respiratory system may be latent and complex, and hence difficult to study and follow up. Here we performed RNA-seq analyses of a system of human airway epithelial cells treated with the BP crude oil and/or dispersants Corexit 9500 and Corexit 9527 that were used to help break up the oil spill. Based on the RNA-seq data, we then systemically analyzed the transcriptomic perturbations of the cells at the KEGG pathway level using two pathway-based analysis tools, GAGE (generally applicable gene set enrichment) and GSNCA (Gene Sets Net Correlations Analysis). Our results suggested a pattern of change towards carcinogenesis for the treated cells marked by upregulation of ribosomal biosynthesis (hsa03008) (p=1.97E-13), protein processing (hsa04141) (p=4.09E-7), Wnt signaling (hsa04310) (p=6.76E-3), neurotrophin signaling (hsa04722) (p=7.73E-3) and insulin signaling (hsa04910) (p=1.16E-2) pathways under the dispersant Corexit 9527 treatment, as identified by GAGE analysis. Furthermore, through GSNCA analysis, we identified gene co-expression changes for several KEGG cancer pathways, including small cell lung cancer pathway (hsa05222, p=9.99E-5), under various treatments of oil/dispersant, especially the mixture of oil and Corexit 9527. Overall, our results suggested carcinogenic effects of dispersants (in particular Corexit 9527) and their mixtures with the BP crude oil, and provided further support for more stringent safety precautions and regulations for operations involving long-term respiratory exposure to oil and dispersants."	
24231161	microbial genomics	Microbiological research	"Genomic analysis of three sponge-associated Arthrobacter Antarctic strains, inhibiting the growth of Burkholderia cepacia complex bacteria by synthesizing volatile organic compounds."	"In this work we analyzed the ability of three Arthrobacter strains (namely TB23, TB26 and CAL618), which were isolated from the Antarctic sponges Haliclonissa verrucosa and Lyssodendrix nobilis, to specifically inhibit the growth of a panel of 40 Burkholderia cepacia complex strains, representing a major cause of infections in patients that are affected by Cystic Fibrosis. The inhibitory activity was due to the synthesis of antimicrobial compounds, very likely volatile organic compounds (VOCs), and was partially dependent on the growth media that were used for Antarctic strains growth. The phylogenetic analysis revealed that two of them (i.e. CAL 618 and TB23) were very close and very likely belonged to the same Arthrobacter species, whereas the strain TB26 was placed in a distant branch. The genome of the strains TB26 and CAL618 was also sequenced and compared with that of the strain TB23. The analysis revealed that TB23 and CAL618 shared more genomic properties (GC content, genome size, number of genes) than with TB26. Since the three strains exhibited very similar inhibition pattern vs Bcc strains, it is quite possible that genes involved in the biosynthesis of antimicrobial compounds very likely belong to the core genome."	
28507058	human genomics	Journal of the American Society of Nephrology : JASN	"{'i': 'β', '#text': 'Hepatocyte Nuclear Factor-1 Regulates Urinary Concentration and Response to Hypertonicity.'}"	"The transcription factor hepatocyte nuclear factor-1 (HNF-1) is essential for normal kidney development and function. Inactivation of HNF-1 in mouse kidney tubules leads to early-onset cyst formation and postnatal lethality. Here, we used Pkhd1/Cre mice to delete HNF-1 specifically in renal collecting ducts (CDs). CD-specific HNF-1 mutant mice survived long term and developed slowly progressive cystic kidney disease, renal fibrosis, and hydronephrosis. Compared with wild-type littermates, HNF-1 mutant mice exhibited polyuria and polydipsia. Before the development of significant renal structural abnormalities, mutant mice exhibited low urine osmolality at baseline and after water restriction and administration of desmopressin. However, mutant and wild-type mice had similar plasma vasopressin and solute excretion levels. HNF-1 mutant kidneys showed increased expression of aquaporin-2 mRNA but mislocalized expression of aquaporin-2 protein in the cytoplasm of CD cells. Mutant kidneys also had decreased expression of the UT-A urea transporter and collectrin, which is involved in apical membrane vesicle trafficking. Treatment of HNF-1 mutant mIMCD3 cells with hypertonic NaCl inhibited the induction of osmoregulated genes, including , which encodes the transcription factor FXR that is required for maximal urinary concentration. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and sequencing experiments revealed HNF-1 binding to the  promoter in wild-type kidneys, and immunoblot analysis revealed downregulated expression of FXR in HNF-1 mutant kidneys. These findings reveal a novel role of HNF-1 in osmoregulation and identify multiple mechanisms, whereby mutations of HNF-1 produce defects in urinary concentration."	
35417692	human genomics	Cell reports	A mesenchymal to epithelial switch in Fgf10 expression specifies an evolutionary-conserved population of ionocytes in salivary glands.	"Fibroblast growth factor 10 (FGF10) is well established as a mesenchyme-derived growth factor and a critical regulator of fetal organ development in mice and humans. Using a single-cell RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) atlas of salivary gland (SG) and a tamoxifen inducible Fgf10:R26-tdTomato mouse, we show that FGF10 cells are exclusively mesenchymal until postnatal day 5 (P5) but, after P7, there is a switch in expression and only epithelial FGF10 cells are observed after P15. Further RNA-seq analysis of sorted mesenchymal and epithelial FGF10 cells shows that the epithelial FGF10 population express the hallmarks of ancient ionocyte signature Forkhead box i1 and 2 (Foxi1, Foxi2), Achaete-scute homolog 3 (Ascl3), and the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (Cftr). We propose that epithelial FGF10 cells are specialized SG ionocytes located in ducts and important for the ionic modification of saliva. In addition, they maintain FGF10-dependent gland homeostasis via communication with FGFR2b ductal and myoepithelial cells."	
24006278	human genomics	Biology of reproduction	A genome-wide analysis of open chromatin in human epididymis epithelial cells reveals candidate regulatory elements for genes coordinating epididymal function.	"The epithelium lining the epididymis has a pivotal role in ensuring a luminal environment that can support normal sperm maturation. Many of the individual genes that encode proteins involved in establishing the epididymal luminal fluid are well characterized. They include ion channels, ion exchangers, transporters, and solute carriers. However, the molecular mechanisms that coordinate expression of these genes and modulate their activities in response to biological stimuli are less well understood. To identify cis-regulatory elements for genes expressed in human epididymis epithelial cells, we generated genome-wide maps of open chromatin by DNase-seq. This analysis identified 33,542 epididymis-selective DNase I hypersensitive sites (DHS), which were not evident in five cell types of different lineages. Identification of genes with epididymis-selective DHS at their promoters revealed gene pathways that are active in immature epididymis epithelial cells. These include processes correlating with epithelial function and also others with specific roles in the epididymis, including retinol metabolism and ascorbate and aldarate metabolism. Peaks of epididymis-selective chromatin were seen in the androgen receptor gene and the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene, which has a critical role in regulating ion transport across the epididymis epithelium. In silico prediction of transcription factor binding sites that were overrepresented in epididymis-selective DHS identified epithelial transcription factors, including ELF5 and ELF3, the androgen receptor, Pax2, and Sox9, as components of epididymis transcriptional networks. Active genes, which are targets of each transcription factor, reveal important biological processes in the epididymis epithelium."	
16614352	human genomics	American journal of respiratory cell and molecular biology	Respiratory epithelial gene expression in patients with mild and severe cystic fibrosis lung disease.	"Despite having identical cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator genotypes, individuals with DeltaF508 homozygous cystic fibrosis (CF) demonstrate significant variability in severity of pulmonary disease. This investigation used high-density oligonucleotide microarray analysis of nasal respiratory epithelium to investigate the molecular basis of phenotypic differences in CF by (1) identifying differences in gene expression between DeltaF508 homozygotes in the most severe 20th percentile of lung disease by forced expiratory volume in 1 s and those in the most mild 20th percentile of lung disease and (2) identifying differences in gene expression between DeltaF508 homozygotes and age-matched non-CF control subjects. Microarray results from 23 participants (12 CF, 11 non-CF) met the strict quality control guidelines and were used for final data analysis. A total of 652 of the 11,867 genes identified as present in 75% of the samples were significantly differentially expressed in one of the three disease phenotypes: 30 in non-CF, 53 in mild CF, and 569 in severe CF. An analysis of genes differentially expressed by severity of CF lung disease demonstrated significant upregulation in severe CF of genes involved in protein ubiquination (P < 0.04), mitochondrial oxidoreductase activity (P < 0.01), and lipid metabolism (P < 0.03). Analysis of genes with decreased expression in patients with CF compared with control subjects demonstrated significant downregulation of genes involved in airway defense (P < 0.047) and protein metabolism (P < 0.048). This study suggests that differences in CF lung phenotype are associated with differences in expression of genes involving airway defense, protein ubiquination, and mitochondrial oxidoreductase activity and identifies specific new candidate modifiers of the CF phenotype."	
32345720	human genomics	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	"{'i': 'Drosophila', '#text': 'as a model for studying cystic fibrosis pathophysiology of the gastrointestinal system.'}"	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a recessive disease caused by mutations in the  () gene. The most common symptoms include progressive lung disease and chronic digestive conditions. CF is the first human genetic disease to benefit from having five different species of animal models. Despite the phenotypic differences among the animal models and human CF, these models have provided invaluable insight into understanding disease mechanisms at the organ-system level. Here, we identify a member of the ABCC4 family, CG5789, that has the structural and functional properties expected for encoding the  equivalent of human CFTR, and thus refer to it as  (). We show that knockdown of  in the adult intestine disrupts osmotic homeostasis and displays CF-like phenotypes that lead to intestinal stem cell hyperplasia. We also show that expression of wild-type human , but not mutant variants of CFTR that prevent plasma membrane expression, rescues the mutant phenotypes of  Furthermore, we performed RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq)-based transcriptomic analysis using  fly intestine and identified a mucin gene, , which is required for proper intestinal barrier protection. Altogether, our findings suggest that  can be a powerful model organism for studying CF pathophysiology."	
23145907	microbial genomics	Environmental microbiology	Ex vivo transcriptional profiling reveals a common set of genes important for the adaptation of Pseudomonas aeruginosa to chronically infected host sites.	"The opportunistic bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a major nosocomial pathogen causing both devastating acute and chronic persistent infections. During the course of an infection, P.  aeruginosa rapidly adapts to the specific conditions within the host. In the present study, we aimed at the identification of genes that are highly expressed during biofilm infections such as in chronically infected lungs of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF), burn wounds and subcutaneous mouse tumours. We found a common subset of differentially regulated genes in all three in vivo habitats and evaluated whether their inactivation impacts on the bacterial capability to form biofilms in vitro and to establish biofilm-associated infections in a murine model. Additive effects on biofilm formation and host colonization were discovered by the combined inactivation of several highly expressed genes. However, even combined inactivation was not sufficient to abolish the establishment of an infection completely. These findings can be interpreted as evidence that either redundant traits encode functions that are essential for in vivo survival and chronic biofilm infections and/or bacterial adaptation is considerably achieved independently of transcription levels. Supplemental screens, will have to be applied in order to identify the minimal set of key genes essential for the establishment of chronic infectious diseases."	
29146850	microbial genomics	Genome announcements	"{'i': 'Nocardia farcinica', '#text': 'First Insight into the Genome Sequences of Two Linezolid-Resistant  Strains Isolated from Patients with Cystic Fibrosis.'}"	"The draft genome sequences of two  strains isolated from two patients with cystic fibrosis (CF), resistant to trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole and linezolid, are reported here. The estimated genome sizes were 5.8 Mb with a 70.63% G+C content. Transposases from 916 were detected, but not 23S rRNA mutation (G2576T) related to linezolid resistance."	
38353553	microbial genomics	Microbiology spectrum	"{'i': 'Mycobacterium abscessus', '#text': 'Lsr2, a pleiotropic regulator at the core of the infectious strategy of .'}"	"is a non-tuberculous mycobacterium, causing lung infections in cystic fibrosis patients. During pulmonary infection,  switches from smooth (Mabs-S) to rough (Mabs-R) morphotypes, the latter being hyper-virulent. Previously, we isolated the  gene as differentially expressed during S-to-R transition.  encodes a pleiotropic transcription factor that falls under the superfamily of nucleoid-associated proteins. Here, we used two functional genomic methods, RNA-seq and chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing (ChIP-seq), to elucidate the molecular role of Lsr2 in the pathobiology of . Transcriptomic analysis shows that Lsr2 differentially regulates gene expression across both morphotypes, most of which are involved in several key cellular processes of , including host adaptation and antibiotic resistance. These results were confirmed through quantitative real-time PCR, as well as by minimum inhibitory concentration tests and infection tests on macrophages in the presence of antibiotics. ChIP-seq analysis revealed that Lsr2 extensively binds the  genome at AT-rich sequences and appears to form long domains that participate in the repression of its target genes. Unexpectedly, the genomic distribution of Lsr2 revealed no distinctions between Mabs-S and Mabs-R, implying more intricate mechanisms at play for achieving target selectivity.IMPORTANCELsr2 is a crucial transcription factor and chromosome organizer involved in intracellular growth and virulence in the smooth and rough morphotypes of . Using RNA-seq and chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing (ChIP-seq), we investigated the molecular role of Lsr2 in gene expression regulation along with its distribution on  genome. Our study demonstrates the pleiotropic regulatory role of Lsr2, regulating the expression of many genes coordinating essential cellular and molecular processes in both morphotypes. In addition, we have elucidated the role of Lsr2 in antibiotic resistance both  and , where  mutant strains display heightened sensitivity to antibiotics. Through ChIP-seq, we reported the widespread distribution of Lsr2 on  genome, revealing a direct repressive effect due to its extensive binding on promoters or coding sequences of its targets. This study unveils the significant regulatory role of Lsr2, intricately intertwined with its function in shaping the organization of the  genome."	
32727470	human genomics	Respiratory research	Cell-specific expression of lung disease risk-related genes in the human small airway epithelium.	"The human small airway epithelium (SAE) plays a central role in the early events in the pathogenesis of most inherited and acquired lung disorders. Little is known about the molecular phenotypes of the specific cell populations comprising the SAE in humans, and the contribution of SAE specific cell populations to the risk for lung diseases. Drop-seq single-cell RNA-sequencing was used to characterize the transcriptome of single cells from human SAE of nonsmokers and smokers by bronchoscopic brushing. Eleven distinct cell populations were identified, including major and rare epithelial cells, and immune/inflammatory cells. There was cell type-specific expression of genes relevant to the risk of the inherited pulmonary disorders, genes associated with risk of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and (non-mutated) driver genes for lung cancers. Cigarette smoking significantly altered the cell type-specific transcriptomes and disease risk-related genes. This data provides new insights into the possible contribution of specific lung cells to the pathogenesis of lung disorders."	
24402126	fecal metagenomics	International journal of molecular sciences	Meta-omic platforms to assist in the understanding of NAFLD gut microbiota alterations: tools and applications.	"Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of chronic liver disease worldwide as a result of the increasing prevalence of obesity, starting from early life stages. It is characterized by a spectrum of liver diseases ranging from simple fatty liver (NAFL) to steatohepatitis (NASH), with a possible progression to fibrosis, thus increasing liver-related morbidity and mortality. NAFLD development is driven by the co-action of several risk factors, including obesity and metabolic syndrome, which may be both genetically induced and diet-related. Recently, particular attention has been paid to the gut-liver axis, which may play a physio-pathological role in the onset and progression of the disease. The gut microbiota is intended to act as a bioreactor that can guarantee autonomous metabolic and immunological functions and that can drive functional strategies within the environment of the body in response to external stimuli. The complexity of the gut microbiota suggests that it behaves as an organ. Therefore, the concept of the gut-liver axis must be complemented with the gut-microbiota-liver network due to the high intricacy of the microbiota components and metabolic activities; these activities form the active diet-driven power plant of the host. Such complexity can only be revealed using systems biology, which can integrate clinical phenomics and gut microbiota data."	?
33808877	human genomics	Genes	"{'i': 'ATP11A', '#text': 'DNA Methylation at  cg11702988 Is a Biomarker of Lung Disease Severity in Cystic Fibrosis: A Longitudinal Study.'}"	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a chronic genetic disease that mainly affects the respiratory and gastrointestinal systems. No curative treatments are available, but the follow-up in specialized centers has greatly improved the patient life expectancy. Robust biomarkers are required to monitor the disease, guide treatments, stratify patients, and provide outcome measures in clinical trials. In the present study, we outline a strategy to select putative DNA methylation biomarkers of lung disease severity in cystic fibrosis patients. In the discovery step, we selected seven potential biomarkers using a genome-wide DNA methylation dataset that we generated in nasal epithelial samples from the MethylCF cohort. In the replication step, we assessed the same biomarkers using sputum cell samples from the MethylBiomark cohort. Of interest, DNA methylation at the cg11702988 site ( gene) positively correlated with lung function and BMI, and negatively correlated with lung disease severity,  chronic infection, and the number of exacerbations. These results were replicated in prospective sputum samples collected at four time points within an 18-month period and longitudinally. To conclude, (i) we identified a DNA methylation biomarker that correlates with CF severity, (ii) we provided a method to easily assess this biomarker, and (iii) we carried out the first longitudinal analysis of DNA methylation in CF patients. This new epigenetic biomarker could be used to stratify CF patients in clinical trials."	
22355331	viromics	PloS one	"Characterization of the viral microbiome in patients with severe lower respiratory tract infections, using metagenomic sequencing."	"The human respiratory tract is heavily exposed to microorganisms. Viral respiratory tract pathogens, like RSV, influenza and rhinoviruses cause major morbidity and mortality from respiratory tract disease. Furthermore, as viruses have limited means of transmission, viruses that cause pathogenicity in other tissues may be transmitted through the respiratory tract. It is therefore important to chart the human virome in this compartment. We have studied nasopharyngeal aspirate samples submitted to the Karolinska University Laboratory, Stockholm, Sweden from March 2004 to May 2005 for diagnosis of respiratory tract infections. We have used a metagenomic sequencing strategy to characterize viruses, as this provides the most unbiased view of the samples. Virus enrichment followed by 454 sequencing resulted in totally 703,790 reads and 110,931 of these were found to be of viral origin by using an automated classification pipeline. The snapshot of the respiratory tract virome of these 210 patients revealed 39 species and many more strains of viruses. Most of the viral sequences were classified into one of three major families; Paramyxoviridae, Picornaviridae or Orthomyxoviridae. The study also identified one novel type of Rhinovirus C, and identified a number of previously undescribed viral genetic fragments of unknown origin."	210
27703072	microbial genomics	mBio	LasR Variant Cystic Fibrosis Isolates Reveal an Adaptable Quorum-Sensing Hierarchy in Pseudomonas aeruginosa.	"Chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections cause significant morbidity in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). Over years to decades, P. aeruginosa adapts genetically as it establishes chronic lung infections. Nonsynonymous mutations in lasR, the quorum-sensing (QS) master regulator, are common in CF. In laboratory strains of P. aeruginosa, LasR activates transcription of dozens of genes, including that for another QS regulator, RhlR. Despite the frequency with which lasR coding variants have been reported to occur in P. aeruginosa CF isolates, little is known about their consequences for QS. We sequenced lasR from 2,583 P. aeruginosa CF isolates. The lasR sequences of 580 isolates (22%) coded for polypeptides that differed from the conserved LasR polypeptides of well-studied laboratory strains. This collection included 173 unique lasR coding variants, 116 of which were either missense or nonsense mutations. We studied 31 of these variants. About one-sixth of the variant LasR proteins were functional, including 3 with nonsense mutations, and in some LasR-null isolates, genes that are LasR dependent in laboratory strains were nonetheless expressed. Furthermore, about half of the LasR-null isolates retained RhlR activity. Therefore, in some CF isolates the QS hierarchy is altered such that RhlR quorum sensing is independent of LasR regulation. Our analysis challenges the view that QS-silent P. aeruginosa is selected during the course of a chronic CF lung infection. Rather, some lasR sequence variants retain functionality, and many employ an alternate QS strategy involving RhlR. Chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections, such as those in patients with the genetic disease cystic fibrosis, are notable in that mutants with defects in the quorum-sensing transcription factor LasR frequently arise. In laboratory strains of P. aeruginosa, quorum sensing activates transcription of dozens of genes, many of which encode virulence factors, such as secreted proteases and hydrogen cyanide synthases. In well-studied laboratory strains, LasR-null mutants have a quorum-sensing-deficient phenotype. Therefore, the presence of LasR variants in chronic infections has been interpreted to indicate that quorum-sensing-regulated products are not important for those infections. We report that some P. aeruginosa LasR variant clinical isolates are not LasR-null mutants, and others have uncoupled a second quorum-sensing system, the RhlR system, from LasR regulation. In these uncoupled isolates, RhlR independently activates at least some quorum-sensing-dependent genes. Our findings suggest that quorum sensing plays a role in chronic P. aeruginosa infections, despite the emergence of LasR coding variants."	
17923522	microbial genomics	Infection and immunity	Individual matrix metalloproteinases control distinct transcriptional responses in airway epithelial cells infected with Pseudomonas aeruginosa.	"Airway epithelium is the initial point of host-pathogen interaction in Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection, an important pathogen in cystic fibrosis and nosocomial pneumonia. We used global gene expression analysis to determine airway epithelial transcriptional responses dependent on matrilysin (matrix metalloproteinase 7 [MMP-7]) and stromelysin-2 (MMP-10), two MMPs induced by acute P. aeruginosa pulmonary infection. Extraction of differential gene expression (EDGE) analysis of gene expression changes in P. aeruginosa-infected organotypic tracheal epithelial cell cultures from wild-type, Mmp7-/-, and Mmp10-/- mice identified 2,091 matrilysin-dependent and 1,628 stromelysin-2-dependent genes that were differentially expressed. Key node network analysis showed that these MMPs controlled distinct gene expression programs involved in proliferation, cell death, immune responses, and signal transduction, among other host defense processes. Our results demonstrate discrete roles for these MMPs in regulating epithelial responses to Pseudomonas infection and show that a global genomics strategy can be used to assess MMP function."	
19503797	human genomics	PloS one	"Azithromycin treatment alters gene expression in inflammatory, lipid metabolism, and cell cycle pathways in well-differentiated human airway epithelia."	"Prolonged macrolide antibiotic therapy at low doses improves clinical outcome in patients affected with diffuse panbronchiolitis and cystic fibrosis. Consensus is building that the therapeutic effects are due to anti-inflammatory, rather than anti-microbial activities, but the mode of action is likely complex. To gain insights into how the macrolide azithromycin (AZT) modulates inflammatory responses in airways, well-differentiated primary cultures of human airway epithelia were exposed to AZT alone, an inflammatory stimulus consisting of soluble factors from cystic fibrosis airways, or AZT followed by the inflammatory stimulus. RNA microarrays were conducted to identify global and specific gene expression changes. Analysis of gene expression changes revealed that the AZT treatment alone altered the gene profile of the cells, primarily by significantly increasing the expression of lipid/cholesterol genes and decreasing the expression of cell cycle/mitosis genes. The increase in cholesterol biosynthetic genes was confirmed by increased filipin staining, an index of free cholesterol, after AZT treatment. AZT also affected genes with inflammatory annotations, but the effect was variable (both up- and down-regulation) and gene specific. AZT pretreatment prevented the up-regulation of some genes, such as MUC5AC and MMP9, triggered by the inflammatory stimulus, but the up-regulation of other inflammatory genes, e.g., cytokines and chemokines, such as interleukin-8, was not affected. On the other hand, HLA genes were increased by AZT. Notably, secreted IL-8 protein levels did not reflect mRNA levels, and were, in fact, higher after AZT pretreatment in cultures exposed to the inflammatory stimulus, suggesting that AZT can affect inflammatory pathways other than by altering gene expression. These findings suggest that the specific effects of AZT on inflamed and non-inflamed airway epithelia are likely relevant to its clinical activity, and their apparent complexity may help explain the diverse immunomodulatory roles of macrolides."	
34764283	human genomics	Nature communications	Epigenetic reprogramming of airway macrophages promotes polarization and inflammation in muco-obstructive lung disease.	"Lung diseases, such as cystic fibrosis and COPD, are characterized by mucus obstruction and chronic airway inflammation, but their mechanistic link remains poorly understood. Here, we focus on the function of the mucostatic airway microenvironment on epigenetic reprogramming of airway macrophages (AM) and resulting transcriptomic and phenotypical changes. Using a mouse model of muco-obstructive lung disease (Scnn1b-transgenic), we identify epigenetically controlled, differentially regulated pathways and transcription factors involved in inflammatory responses and macrophage polarization. Functionally, AMs from Scnn1b-transgenic mice have reduced efferocytosis and phagocytosis, and excessive inflammatory responses upon lipopolysaccharide challenge, mediated through enhanced Irf1 function and expression. Ex vivo stimulation of wild-type AMs with native mucus impairs efferocytosis and phagocytosis capacities. In addition, mucus induces gene expression changes, comparable with those observed in AMs from Scnn1b-transgenic mice. Our data show that mucostasis induces epigenetic reprogramming of AMs, leading to changes favoring tissue damage and disease progression. Targeting these altered AMs may support therapeutic approaches in patients with muco-obstructive lung diseases."	
19414807	human genomics	"Journal of immunology (Baltimore, Md. : 1950)"	RhoH/TTF negatively regulates leukotriene production in neutrophils.	"Leukotriene B(4) (LTB(4)) is an important proinflammatory lipid mediator generated by neutrophils upon activation. GM-CSF stimulation is known to enhance agonist-mediated LTB(4) production of neutrophils within minutes, a process called ""priming"". In this study, we demonstrate that GM-CSF also limits the production of LTB(4) by neutrophils via a transcriptional mechanism at later time points. We identified hemopoietic-specific Ras homologous (RhoH)/translocation three four (TTF), which was induced following GM-CSF stimulation in neutrophils, as a key regulator in this process. Neutrophils derived from RhoH/TTF-deficient (Rhoh(-/-)) mice demonstrated increased LTB(4) production upon activation compared with normal mouse neutrophils. Moreover, neutrophils from cystic fibrosis patients expressed enhanced levels of RhoH/TTF and generated less LTB(4) upon activation compared with normal human neutrophils. Taken together, these data suggest that RhoH/TTF represents an inducible feedback inhibitor in neutrophils that is involved in the limitation of innate immune responses."	
28894437	microbial genomics	Frontiers in microbiology	"{'i': 'Stenotrophomonas maltophilia', '#text': 'Evolution of  in Cystic Fibrosis Lung over Chronic Infection: A Genomic and Phenotypic Population Study.'}"	"has been recognized as an emerging multi-drug resistant opportunistic pathogen in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. We report a comparative genomic and phenotypic analysis of 91  strains from 10 CF patients over a 12-year period. Draft genome analyses included  Multi-Locus Sequence Typing (MLST), Single-Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs), and pangenome characterization. Growth rate, biofilm formation, motility, mutation frequency,  virulence, and  antibiotic susceptibility were determined and compared with population structure over time. The population consisted of 20 different sequence types (STs), 11 of which are new ones. Pangenome and SNPs data showed that this population is composed of three major phylogenetic lineages. All patients were colonized by multiple STs, although most of them were found in a single patient and showed persistence over years. Only few phenotypes showed some correlation with population phylogenetic structure. Our results show that  adaptation to CF lung is associated with consistent genotypic and phenotypic heterogeneity.  infecting multiple hosts likely experiences different selection pressures depending on the host environment. The poor genotype-phenotype correlation suggests the existence of complex regulatory mechanisms that need to be explored in order to better design therapeutic strategies."	
25402615	human genomics	Nature biotechnology	The draft genome sequence of the ferret (Mustela putorius furo) facilitates study of human respiratory disease.	"The domestic ferret (Mustela putorius furo) is an important animal model for multiple human respiratory diseases. It is considered the 'gold standard' for modeling human influenza virus infection and transmission. Here we describe the 2.41 Gb draft genome assembly of the domestic ferret, constituting 2.28 Gb of sequence plus gaps. We annotated 19,910 protein-coding genes on this assembly using RNA-seq data from 21 ferret tissues. We characterized the ferret host response to two influenza virus infections by RNA-seq analysis of 42 ferret samples from influenza time-course data and showed distinct signatures in ferret trachea and lung tissues specific to 1918 or 2009 human pandemic influenza virus infections. Using microarray data from 16 ferret samples reflecting cystic fibrosis disease progression, we showed that transcriptional changes in the CFTR-knockout ferret lung reflect pathways of early disease that cannot be readily studied in human infants with cystic fibrosis disease."	
30995102	human genomics	American journal of respiratory cell and molecular biology	Transcriptomic Responses to Ivacaftor and Prediction of Ivacaftor Clinical Responsiveness.	"Ivacaftor is a drug that was recently approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) and at least one copy of the G511D mutation in the CFTR (CF transmembrane conductance regulator) gene. The transcriptomic effect of ivacaftor in patients with CF remains unclear. Here, we sought to examine whether and how the transcriptome of patients is influenced by ivacaftor treatment, and to determine whether these data allow prediction of ivacaftor responsiveness. Our data originated from the G551D Observational Study (GOAL). We performed RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) on peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 56 patients and compared the transcriptomic changes that occurred before and after ivacaftor treatment. We used consensus clustering to stratify patients into subgroups based on their clinical responses after treatment, and we determined differences between subgroups in baseline gene expression. A random forest model was built to predict ivacaftor responsiveness. We identified 239 genes (false discovery rate < 0.1) that were significantly influenced by ivacaftor in PBMCs. The functions of these genes relate to cell differentiation, microbial infection, inflammation, Toll-like receptor signaling, and metabolism. We classified patients into ""good"" and ""moderate"" responder groups based on their clinical response to ivacaftor. We identified a panel of signature genes and built a statistical model for predicting CFTR modulator responsiveness. Despite a limited sample size, adequate prediction performance was achieved with an accuracy of 0.92. In conclusion, for the first time, the present study demonstrates profound transcriptomic impacts of ivacaftor in PBMCs from patients with CF, and provides a pilot statistical model for predicting clinical responsiveness to ivacaftor before treatment."	
26067955	microbial genomics	Genome announcements	Complete Genome Sequence of Burkholderia cepacia Strain LO6.	Burkholderia cepacia strain LO6 is a betaproteobacterium that was isolated from a cystic fibrosis patient. Here we report the 6.4 Mb draft genome sequence assembled into 2 contigs. This genome sequence will aid the transcriptomic profiling of this bacterium and help us to better understand the mechanisms specific to pulmonary infections.	
19320992	human genomics	BMC medical genomics	Correlation of microRNA levels during hypoxia with predicted target mRNAs through genome-wide microarray analysis.	"Low levels of oxygen in tissues, seen in situations such as chronic lung disease, necrotic tumors, and high altitude exposures, initiate a signaling pathway that results in active transcription of genes possessing a hypoxia response element (HRE). The aim of this study was to investigate whether a change in miRNA expression following hypoxia could account for changes in the cellular transcriptome based on currently available miRNA target prediction tools. To identify changes induced by hypoxia, we conducted mRNA- and miRNA-array-based experiments in HT29 cells, and performed comparative analysis of the resulting data sets based on multiple target prediction algorithms. To date, few studies have investigated an environmental perturbation for effects on genome-wide miRNA levels, or their consequent influence on mRNA output. Comparison of miRNAs with predicted mRNA targets indicated a lower level of concordance than expected. We did, however, find preliminary evidence of combinatorial regulation of mRNA expression by miRNA. Target prediction programs and expression profiling techniques do not yet adequately represent the complexity of miRNA-mediated gene repression, and new methods may be required to better elucidate these pathways. Our data suggest the physiologic impact of miRNAs on cellular transcription results from a multifaceted network of miRNA and mRNA relationships, working together in an interconnected system and in context of hundreds of RNA species. The methods described here for comparative analysis of cellular miRNA and mRNA will be useful for understanding genome wide regulatory responsiveness and refining miRNA predictive algorithms."	
24526633	microbial genomics	Genome announcements	Draft Genome Sequence of Burkholderia dolosa PC543 Isolated from Cystic Fibrosis Airways.	"Burkholderia dolosa is a member of the Burkholderia cepacia complex, a group of opportunistic bacterial pathogens often associated with fatal chronic infections in the lungs of patients suffering from cystic fibrosis (CF). Here, we announce the draft genome sequence of B. dolosa PC543 (LMG 19468), a CF airway isolate."	
30526669	human genomics	Clinical epigenetics	Genome-wide DNA methylation profiling shows a distinct epigenetic signature associated with lung macrophages in cystic fibrosis.	"Lung macrophages are major participants in the pulmonary innate immune response. In the cystic fibrosis (CF) lung, the inability of lung macrophages to successfully regulate the exaggerated inflammatory response suggests dysfunctional innate immune cell function. In this study, we aim to gain insight into innate immune cell dysfunction in CF by investigating alterations in DNA methylation in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) cells, composed primarily of lung macrophages of CF subjects compared with healthy controls. All analyses were performed using primary alveolar macrophages from human subjects collected via bronchoalveolar lavage. Epigenome-wide DNA methylation was examined via Illumina MethylationEPIC (850 K) array. Targeted next-generation bisulfite sequencing was used to validate selected differentially methylated CpGs. Methylation-based sample classification was performed using the recursively partitioned mixture model (RPMM) and was tested against sample case-control status. Differentially methylated loci were identified by fitting linear models with adjustment of age, sex, estimated cell type proportions, and repeat measurement. RPMM class membership was significantly associated with the CF disease status (P = 0.026). One hundred nine CpG loci were differentially methylated in CF BAL cells (all FDR ≤ 0.1). The majority of differentially methylated loci in CF were hypo-methylated and found within non-promoter CpG islands as well as in putative enhancer regions and DNase hyper-sensitive regions. These results support a hypothesis that epigenetic changes, specifically DNA methylation at a multitude of gene loci in lung macrophages, may participate, at least in part, in driving dysfunctional innate immune cells in the CF lung."	
23637754	microbial genomics	PloS one	The susceptibility of Pseudomonas aeruginosa strains from cystic fibrosis patients to bacteriophages.	"Phage therapy may become a complement to antibiotics in the treatment of chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection. To design efficient therapeutic cocktails, the genetic diversity of the species and the spectrum of susceptibility to bacteriophages must be investigated. Bacterial strains showing high levels of phage resistance need to be identified in order to decipher the underlying mechanisms. Here we have selected genetically diverse P. aeruginosa strains from cystic fibrosis patients and tested their susceptibility to a large collection of phages. Based on plaque morphology and restriction profiles, six different phages were purified from ""pyophage"", a commercial cocktail directed against five different bacterial species, including P. aeruginosa. Characterization of these phages by electron microscopy and sequencing of genome fragments showed that they belong to 4 different genera. Among 47 P. aeruginosa strains, 13 were not lysed by any of the isolated phages individually or by pyophage. We isolated two new phages that could lyse some of these strains, and their genomes were sequenced. The presence/absence of a CRISPR-Cas system (Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats and Crisper associated genes) was investigated to evaluate the role of the system in phage resistance. Altogether, the results show that some P. aeruginosa strains cannot support the growth of any of the tested phages belonging to 5 different genera, and suggest that the CRISPR-Cas system is not a major defence mechanism against these lytic phages."	
19047519	microbial genomics	Genome research	Newly introduced genomic prophage islands are critical determinants of in vivo competitiveness in the Liverpool Epidemic Strain of Pseudomonas aeruginosa.	"Pseudomonas aeruginosa isolates have a highly conserved core genome representing up to 90% of the total genomic sequence with additional variable accessory genes, many of which are found in genomic islands or islets. The identification of the Liverpool Epidemic Strain (LES) in a children's cystic fibrosis (CF) unit in 1996 and its subsequent observation in several centers in the United Kingdom challenged the previous widespread assumption that CF patients acquire only unique strains of P. aeruginosa from the environment. To learn about the forces that shaped the development of this important epidemic strain, the genome of the earliest archived LES isolate, LESB58, was sequenced. The sequence revealed the presence of many large genomic islands, including five prophage clusters, one defective (pyocin) prophage cluster, and five non-phage islands. To determine the role of these clusters, an unbiased signature tagged mutagenesis study was performed, followed by selection in the chronic rat lung infection model. Forty-seven mutants were identified by sequencing, including mutants in several genes known to be involved in Pseudomonas infection. Furthermore, genes from four prophage clusters and one genomic island were identified and in direct competition studies with the parent isolate; four were demonstrated to strongly impact on competitiveness in the chronic rat lung infection model. This strongly indicates that enhanced in vivo competitiveness is a major driver for maintenance and diversifying selection of these genomic prophage genes."	
18287045	microbial genomics	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Dynamics of Pseudomonas aeruginosa genome evolution.	"One of the hallmarks of the Gram-negative bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa is its ability to thrive in diverse environments that includes humans with a variety of debilitating diseases or immune deficiencies. Here we report the complete sequence and comparative analysis of the genomes of two representative P. aeruginosa strains isolated from cystic fibrosis (CF) patients whose genetic disorder predisposes them to infections by this pathogen. The comparison of the genomes of the two CF strains with those of other P. aeruginosa presents a picture of a mosaic genome, consisting of a conserved core component, interrupted in each strain by combinations of specific blocks of genes. These strain-specific segments of the genome are found in limited chromosomal locations, referred to as regions of genomic plasticity. The ability of P. aeruginosa to shape its genomic composition to favor survival in the widest range of environmental reservoirs, with corresponding enhancement of its metabolic capacity is supported by the identification of a genomic island in one of the sequenced CF isolates, encoding enzymes capable of degrading terpenoids produced by trees. This work suggests that niche adaptation is a major evolutionary force influencing the composition of bacterial genomes. Unlike genome reduction seen in host-adapted bacterial pathogens, the genetic capacity of P. aeruginosa is determined by the ability of individual strains to acquire or discard genomic segments, giving rise to strains with customized genomic repertoires. Consequently, this organism can survive in a wide range of environmental reservoirs that can serve as sources of the infecting organisms."	
29967020	microbial genomics	Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy	Broad-Spectrum Adaptive Antibiotic Resistance Associated with Pseudomonas aeruginosa Mucin-Dependent Surfing Motility.	"Surfing motility is a novel form of surface adaptation exhibited by the nosocomial pathogen  in the presence of the glycoprotein mucin, which is found in high abundance at mucosal surfaces, especially those of the lungs of cystic fibrosis and bronchiectasis patients. Here, we investigated the adaptive antibiotic resistance of  under conditions in which surfing occurs compared that in to cells undergoing swimming.  surfing cells were significantly more resistant to several classes of antibiotics, including aminoglycosides, carbapenems, polymyxins, and fluoroquinolones. This was confirmed by incorporation of antibiotics into growth medium, which revealed a concentration-dependent inhibition of surfing motility that occurred at concentrations much higher than those needed to inhibit swimming. To investigate the basis of resistance, transcriptome sequencing (RNA-Seq) was performed and revealed that surfing influenced the expression of numerous genes. Included among genes dysregulated under surfing conditions were multiple genes from the  resistome; these genes are known to affect antibiotic resistance when mutated. Screening transposon mutants in these surfing-dysregulated resistome genes revealed that several of these mutants exhibited changes in susceptibility to one or more antibiotics under surfing conditions, consistent with a contribution to the observed adaptive resistance. In particular, several mutants in resistome genes, including , , , , , and certain hypothetical genes, such as PA5130, PA3576, and PA4292, showed contributions to broad-spectrum resistance under surfing conditions and could be complemented by their respective cloned genes. Therefore, we propose that surfing adaption led to extensive multidrug adaptive resistance as a result of the collective dysregulation of diverse genes."	
36625656	human genomics	mBio	SARS-CoV-2-Mediated Lung Edema and Replication Are Diminished by Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane Conductance Regulator Modulators.	"Coronaviruses (CoVs) of genera α, β, γ, and δ encode proteins that have a PDZ-binding motif (PBM) consisting of the last four residues of the envelope (E) protein (PBM core). PBMs may bind over 400 cellular proteins containing PDZ domains (an acronym formed by the combination of the first letter of the names of the three first proteins where this domain was identified), making them relevant for the control of cell function. Three highly pathogenic human CoVs have been identified to date: severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) and Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV), and SARS-CoV-2. The PBMs of the three CoVs were virulence factors. SARS-CoV mutants in which the E protein PBM core was replaced by the E protein PBM core from virulent or attenuated CoVs were constructed. These mutants showed a gradient of virulence, depending on whether the alternative PBM core introduced was derived from a virulent or an attenuated CoV. Gene expression patterns in the lungs of mice infected with SARS-CoVs encoding each of the different PBMs were analyzed by RNA sequencing of infected lung tissues. E protein PBM of SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2 dysregulated gene expression related to ion transport and cell homeostasis. Decreased expression of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) mRNA, essential for alveolar edema resolution, was shown. Reduced CFTR mRNA levels were associated with edema accumulation in the alveoli of mice infected with SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2. Compounds that increased CFTR expression and activity, significantly reduced SARS-CoV-2 growth in cultured cells and protected against mouse infection, suggesting that E protein virulence is mediated by a decreased CFTR expression.  Three highly pathogenic human CoVs have been identified: SARS-CoV, MERS-CoV, and SARS-CoV-2. The E protein PBMs of these three CoVs were virulence factors. Gene expression patterns associated with the different PBM motifs in the lungs of infected mice were analyzed by deep sequencing. E protein PBM motif of SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2 dysregulated the expression of genes related to ion transport and cell homeostasis. A decrease in the mRNA expression of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), which is essential for edema resolution, was observed. The reduction of CFTR mRNA levels was associated with edema accumulation in the lungs of mice infected with SARS-CoV-2. Compounds that increased the expression and activity of CFTR drastically reduced the production of SARS-CoV-2 and protected against its infection in a mice model. These results allowed the identification of cellular targets for the selection of antivirals."	
33958799	human genomics	Nature medicine	Transcriptional analysis of cystic fibrosis airways at single-cell resolution reveals altered epithelial cell states and composition.	"Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a lethal autosomal recessive disorder that afflicts more than 70,000 people. People with CF experience multi-organ dysfunction resulting from aberrant electrolyte transport across polarized epithelia due to mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene. CF-related lung disease is by far the most important determinant of morbidity and mortality. Here we report results from a multi-institute consortium in which single-cell transcriptomics were applied to define disease-related changes by comparing the proximal airway of CF donors (n = 19) undergoing transplantation for end-stage lung disease with that of previously healthy lung donors (n = 19). Disease-dependent differences observed include an overabundance of epithelial cells transitioning to specialized ciliated and secretory cell subsets coupled with an unexpected decrease in cycling basal cells. Our study yields a molecular atlas of the proximal airway epithelium that will provide insights for the development of new targeted therapies for CF airway disease."	
